Artisan Bread
  --Sally McKenney

3 1/4 c (~430g) bread flour (spoon & leveled) + more for hands and pan
2 tsp  (~6g) instant yeast
2 tsp coarse salt (see note)
1 1/2 c (360ml) water, close to room temperature at  ~70F (21C)
optional: cornmeal for dusting pan

In a large un-greased mixing bowl, whisk the flour, yeast, and salt together. Pour in the water and gently mix together with a rubber spatula or wooden spoon. The dough will seem dry and shaggy, but keep working it until all the flour is moistened. If needed, use your hands to work the dough ingredients together. The dough will be sticky. Shape into a ball in the bowl as best you can. Keeping the dough in the bowl, cover the dough tightly with plastic wrap or aluminum foil and set on the counter at room temperature (honestly any normal room temperature is fine!). Allow to rise for 2-3 hours. The dough will just about double in size, stick to the sides of the bowl, and have a lot of air bubbles.  For absolute best flavor and texture, let this risen dough rest in the refrigerator for at least 12 hr and up to 3 days. Place covered dough in the refrigerator for 12 hr – 3 days. I usually let it rest in the refrigerator for  ~18 hr. The dough will puff up during this time, but may begin to deflate after 2 days. That’s fine and normal– nothing to worry about. Lightly dust a large nonstick baking sheet (with or without rims and make sure it’s nonstick) with flour and/or cornmeal. Turn the cold dough out onto a floured work surface. Using a sharp knife or bench scraper, cut dough in half. Some air bubbles will deflate as you work with it. Place dough halves on prepared baking sheet. Using floured hands, shape into 2 long loaves ~9×3" each (doesn’t have to be exact) ~3" apart. Loosely cover and allow to rest for 45 min. You will bake the dough on this prepared baking sheet. During this 45 min, preheat the oven to 475F (246C). When ready to bake, using a very sharp knife or bread lame (some even use kitchen shears), score the bread loaves with 3 slashes, ~1/2" deep. (“Score” = shallow cut.) If the shaped loaves flattened out during the 45 min, use floured hands to narrow them out along the sides again. Optional for a slightly crispier crust: After the oven is preheated and bread is scored, place a shallow metal or cast iron baking pan or skillet (I usually use a metal 9×13 baking pan) on the bottom oven rack. Carefully and quickly pour 3-4 c of boiling water into it. Place the scored dough/baking pan on a higher rack and quickly shut the oven, trapping the steam inside. The steam helps create a crispier crust. Place the shaped and scored dough (on the flour/cornmeal dusted pan) in the preheated oven on the center rack. Bake for 20-25 min or until the crust is golden brown. Gently tap the loaves– if they sound hollow, the bread is done. For a more accurate test of doneness, the bread is done when an instant read thermometer inserted in the center reads 195F (90C). Remove the bread from the oven and allow to cool for at least 5 min before slicing and serving. Store leftovers loosely covered at room temperature for up to 5 days or in the refrigerator for up to 10 days.



Notes: Use a coarse salt, such as coarse sea salt, in this bread. I find the flavor slightly lacking when using regular table fine salt. If you only have fine salt, reduce to 1 1/2 tsp. Before pouring in the water, add any of the following ingredients/combination of ingredients to the dry ingredients in the bowl: 4 cloves minced garlic + 3 tbp chopped rosemary, 3 tbsp your favorite fresh herb (chopped), 1 c your favorite shredded cheese, a diced jalapeño, 3/4 – 1 c dried cranberries and/or chopped nuts, 2 tsp garlic powder, etc.
