Bagel Bread
  --Cook's Country

Topping:
2 tsp sesame seeds
2 tsp poppy seeds
2 tsp dried minced garlic
2 tsp onion flakes
2 tsp kosher salt

Combine all ingredients in bowl; set aside.

Bread:
3 c (16 1/2 oz) bread flour
2 1/4 tsp instant or rapid rise yeast
1/4 c light corn syrup, divided
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 tsp baking soda
1 large egg, lightly beaten
vegetable oil spray

Spray 8 1/2x4 1/2" loaf pan with oil spray. Whisk flour and yeast together in bowl of stand mixer. Fit mixer with dough hook. Add 1 1/4 c (10 oz) water and 2 tbsp corn syrup. Mix on medium low speed until dough comes together and no dry flour remains, ~2 min. Turn off mixer, cover bowl with dish towel or plastic wrap, and let dough stand for 10 min. Add salt to dough and knead on medium speed until dough is smooth and elastic, ~10 min. Turn out dough onto clean surface and form into ball by pinching and pulling dough edges so top is smooth. Flip dough smooth side down. Pat dough into 6" square and position parallel to edge of surface. Fold top edge of dough down to midline, pressing to seal. Fold bottom edge of dough up to meet first seam at midline and press to seal. Fold dough in half so top and bottom edges meet; pinch together to seal. Flip dough seam side down and roll into 8" log. Transfer to prepared pan, seam side down. Spray top of dough lightly with oil spray, then cover loosely with plastic. Let sit in warm place until dough rises to lip of pan, ~1 hr. Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 350F. Line large plate with clean dish towel. Bring 2 qt water to boil in dutch oven. Once boiling, add baking soda and remaining 2 tbsp corn syrup. Gently tip dough out of pan onto counter. Lift dough, gently lower into boiling water, and cook for 45 s per side. Using spider skimmer or 2 slotted spoons, transfer dough to prepared plate. Fold dish towel over dough gently to wick away excess moisture on top. Let sit until cool enough to handle, ~2 min. Respray no empty pan with oil spray. Add 2 tbsp topping to pan and shake until bottom and sides of pan are evenly coated. Transfer dough to prepared pan, seam side down, pushing it in at edges to fit if necessary. Using paring knife, make 6 1/4" deep slashes crosswise along surface of dough, ~1" apart. Brush dough with egg, then sprinkle with remaining 4 tsp topping. Bake until golden brown and loaf registers at least 200F, ~45 min. Let bread cool completely in pan, ~2 hrs. Remove from pan, slice, and serve, and toasted if desired.


Notes: if using a 9x5" pan, start checking for doneness 5 min early
