Basic Bread
  --Elizabeth Yetter
  
3/4 c warm water (95 F - 110 F)
2 1/4 tsp (1/4 oz/ 7 g) active dry yeast
1 tsp salt
1 1/2 tbsp sugar
1/2 c milk
1 tbsp vegetable shortening
3 c ap flour (approximately)

Pour the warm water into a large bowl. Slowly stir in the yeast until it is dissolved. Add the salt, sugar, and milk to the bowl. Stir until everything is thoroughly combined. Mix in the shortening and the first 2 c of flour. The shortening will continue to integrate into the dough while kneading, so it may be small lumps at this stage. If needed, begin adding more flour, 1 tbsp at a time, until the dough chases the spoon around the bowl. Turn the dough out onto a floured board and knead for ~10 min. Add small spoonfuls of flour as necessary, until the dough is soft and smooth (not sticky to the touch). You may not need all of the flour, or you may need a little more. Keep the surface floured to prevent the dough from sticking to the board and your hands. Put the dough in a greased or buttered bowl and turn the dough over so the other side is also greased. Cover and let the dough rise in a warm, draft-free spot, such as an oven with the light on, for ~1 hr, or until doubled. Punch down the dough. Turn the dough out onto a floured board and knead for 5 min. Form the dough into a loaf and set it gently into a greased bread pan. Cover and let rise for ~30 min, or until doubled. If your kitchen is chilly or drafty, place the pan in a cool oven with the light on for this step, or you may not get a proper rise. Preheat the oven to 375 F. Score the risen dough by cutting 3 slashes across the top with a sharp knife. While not essential, this step controls the direction in which the bread expands as it bakes. (If you forget to do it, the bread will taste the same.) Place the bread in the oven and bake for about 35-45 min or until golden brown. Turn out the loaf of bread and let it cool completely on a rack or clean dish towel before slicing. 


Notes: Brush loaves with milk before baking to produce a dark, shiny crust. Brush loaves with egg white before baking to produce a shiny crust. Spraying loaves with water while they bake will produce a crispy crust. Brush loaves with butter immediately after baking to produce a soft crust. 

