Blueberry Fritter Bread
  --Sofi, Broma Bakery

Sugar:
1/3 c (71g) packed dark brown sugar (light brown works in a pinch)
1 tbsp ground cinnamon

Combine the brown sugar and cinnamon together in a small bowl and stir to combine. Set aside.

Bread:
1/2 c (113g) unsalted butter, at room temperature
2/3 c (140g) sugar
2 large eggs, at room temperature
1 tsp vanilla
1 1/2 c (192g) ap flour
2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp salt
1/3 c (80g) milk
1/3 c (80g) sour cream (or yogurt)
1 1/2 c (220g) blueberries, rinsed

Preheat the oven to 350F. Line a 1 lb loaf pan with parchment paper on all sides and set aside. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter, and sugar. Beat on medium speed until light and fluffy. Use a silicone spatula to scrape down the sides of the bowl. Add the eggs one at a time and beat at low speed, scraping down the bowl between each addition. Add the vanilla and mix well.  In a separate bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt. With the mixer on low speed, add half the dry ingredients and mix slightly. Next add the milk and sour cream and mix slightly. Last, add the second half of dry ingredients and mix until just combined and no streaks of flour remain. Use a silicone spatula to transfer half the batter into the prepared loaf pan and spread into an even layer. Top with half of the blueberries and sprinkle with half of the brown sugar. Spoon the remaining half of the batter over the blueberries using a silicone spatula to spread into an even layer. Top with the remaining blueberries and cinnamon sugar. Bake until the cake is golden brown all over and a butter knife inserted into the center of the loaf comes out clean, ~55 min. Let cool. 

Glaze:
1/2 c (60g) powdered sugar
1 tbsp (15ml) milk
1/4 tsp vanilla extract
pinch of salt

In a small bowl, whisk together the powdered sugar, milk, and vanilla extract until smooth. Once the loaf is cool enough , drizzle with the glaze and serve!


Notes: if using frozen blueberries, don't thaw first. acn try with other berries
