Bourbon Bread

Starter:
1 c + 3 tbsp fine or medium grind cornmeal
1/2 c + 3 1/2 tbsp ap flour
pinch instant yeast
1 c + 1 1/2 tbsp water at 60F

In a tall 2 quart glass container, combine the cornmeal and flour. Stir the yeast into the water and pour over the flour mixture. Mix with your fingers until completely incorprated, cover with a tight lid and let sit at room temp for 10-14 hrs.

Dough:
2 1/2 c + 3 tbsp white flour + more for dusting
3/4 c fine or medium grind cornmeal
2 1/2 tbsp granulated sugar
2 1/2 tsp fine sea salt
1/4 tsp instant yeast
1/2 c + 2 tbsp water at 60F
1/4 c bourbon
1 3/4 tbsp unsalted butter, softened

In a large bowl, stir together the cflour, cornmeal, sugar, salt, and yeast. Pour some water around the edges of the starter, releasing it from the sides, and pour into a separate large bowl. Add the remaining water and bourbon, and gently stir with a wooden spoon, breaking apart the starter. Add the flour mixture and continue to stir with a wooden spoon until combined. Switch to a plastic bowl scraper and continue to mix until fully incorporated and sticky to the touch, adding more flour if needed. Using the bowl scraper, turn the dough onto a floured work surface. Form the dough into a 1 1/2" thick rectangle with the short end facing you. Slide your fingers under the top 3" of the dough and make one small roll toward you. Push down the edge of the roll into the dough, tucking to seal it iwth the side of your hand. Repeat 3-4 timesuntil the dough is fully rolled, then rotate the dough 90 degrees and flip to seam side up. Press gently with the palm of your hand to create a 4x10" rectangle. Repeat the rolling and tucking process as before. Make a totale of 7-8 rolls and tucks, then transfer the dough, seam side down, to a large clean bowl. Cover with a kitchen towel and let rest 30 min. Lightly dust the work surface and your hands with flour. Using a plastic bowl scraper, release the dough from the bowl onto the work surface, seam side down. Gently lift and stretch the dough into a 10x12" rectangle and fold the dough in thirds from the top to bottom, beginning with the long side and then again left to right, creating 9 layers. Tuck the sides under toward the center and return the dough to the bowl, seam side down. Cover and let rest 30 min. Repeat last step, returning to bowl and letting dough rest another 30 min. Place the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and gently stretch into a 10x12" rectangle. Spread the butter over the dough with your fingers and, starting at the long end, roll up tightly. Turn the dough seam side up, gently pressing to seal, and fold the dough into thirds. Do a total of 4 or 5 roll and tuck sequences to incorporate the butter and return the dough to the bowl. Cover with the towl and let rest 30 min. Repeat stretch and fold, cover and let rest 20 min. Transfer the dough, seam side down, to a lightly floured parchment lined baking sheet and cover with a kitchen towel. Chill in the refrigerator for 16-22 hrs. Place a large dutch over on the top rack in the oven and place it's lid on the bottom rack, then preheat oven to 480F. Gently flip the chilled loaf onto a lightly floured rimless baking sheet. Using a sharp knife, make 3 cuts on the diagonal across the loaf, then 3 more in the opposite direction, creating diamonds. Carefully remove the dutch oven and set it on a heatproof surface. Transfer the dough to the dutch oven and return, oncovered, to the oven. Lower the temp to 440F and bake, rotating the dutch oven halfway through, baking until the bread is deep brown, 35-45 min. Cover with the lid and continue to bake until the crumb is set, another 10-20 min. Transfer the loaf to a cooling rack and let cool completely before slicing, ~ 4hrs.

