Chocolate Babka
  --Breads Bakery 

Makes 4

Dough:
320 g (1 1/2 c) water
14 g (1 1/2 tbsp) dry active yeast, or 30g (3 tbsp) fresh yeast
800 g (~6 1/2 c) sifted bread flour
80 g (6 1/2 tbsp) sugar
12 g (4 tsp) table salt
2 eggs
60 g (1/3 c) canola oil or melted butter, cooled

For dry active yeast: Warm the water until it is 110F (it should feel very warm but not too hot to hold your hand in for 5 s). Pour the water into a large mixing bowl and sprinkle the dry active yeast into the water. Let sit for ~5 min to allow the yeast to activate. For fresh yeast: Crumble the fresh yeast into room temperature water. Add the flour, followed by all remaining dough ingredients. Using your hands and/or a flexible bowl scraper, combine the ingredients until the flour is incorporated, then remove the dough from the bowl and knead by hand for ~8 min or until smooth, using the smallest amount of dusting flour possible. Form the dough into a tight, even ball. (In a mixer: Using a dough hook, mix on low speed for 4 min to combine ingredients; increase to medium speed and knead for another 5 min until a soft, smooth dough is formed. Remove the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and form into a tight, even ball.) Scrape your mixing bowl clean, lightly flour the inside and place the dough seam-down into the bowl. Cover it with a kitchen towel or plastic wrap and let rise in a warm, draft-free spot for ~30-45 min or until ~1 1/2 times larger in volume. Lightly grease four 9x5" loaf pans with butter or oil, or line two sheet pans with parchment. 

Filling:
350 g (1 1/2 c) Nutella or other chocolate hazelnut spread
200 g (1 1/3 c) dark chocolate chips, roughly chopped

Warm the Nutella to make it more spreadable by putting the sealed container in a warm water bath for ~10 min prior to using. Lightly flour a rolling pin and work surface and roll the dough into a square measuring approximately 18x18". The majority of the work can be done here right off the bat by just pulling and stretching the dough out to the desired size. Use the rolling pin to even out the thickness, lifting the dough off the table a few times to make sure it's not sticking. If the dough shrinks back as you roll, it's a sign that the gluten needs to relax; simply cover the dough with a towel for 5 min to let it rest and then continue rolling again. Spread the Nutella evenly over the dough using an offset spatula, making sure to spread it all the way out to the edges. With a serrated knife or pizza cutter, divide the square in half lengthwise, creating two 9x18" rectangles. Sprinkle the chocolate chips evenly over each piece. Roll it up: starting with the rectangle closest to you, roll it up from the bottom along the longer edge, working evenly side to side and pulling back with your fingertips to make the roulade as tight as possible. Repeat for the second rectangle. The tighter the roulade, the more layers of chocolate you'll have. And the more layers of chocolate you have, the happier you'll be! Even out the roulades as needed so that they have an even thickness throughout and are ~18-20" in length. Arrange them seam-down and parallel in front of you. Cut the roulade using a serrated knife or pizza cutter, cut each roulade in half along their 18" lengths, doing your best to divide them evenly. Keep both halves together. Divide the roulades down the middle into 2 even halves, each ~9" long. You should now have 8 total pieces (4 pairs of 2). Carefully move all but one pair off to the side to make room on your workspace. Twist the babka working one pair at a time, make the iconic babka shape by crossing 2 pieces, cut-side up, to form an X. Starting on the right side of the intersection, twist the 2 pieces around each other 2-3 more times, making sure to keep the cut sides facing up the whole time. Repeat of the left side of the intersection to create a total of 5-7 even twists along the whole babka. Adjust the babka as needed to achieve an even thickness throughout. Put the babka in the mold, angling the ends downward to help prevent them from rising out of the mold during proofing. (If you're using sheet pans, arrange the babkas two per pan with at least 2" of space on all sides. Press the ends firmly onto the sheet pan to help prevent them from unraveling during proofing). Repeat steps with the remaining 3 pairs to make 4 babkas in total. Cover them loosely with a kitchen towel and let rise for ~1-1 1/2 hr in a warm, draft-free spot. ~30 min into proofing, position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350F. 

Syrup:
160 g (3/4 c) sugar
120 g (1/2 c) water

Combine the sugar and water in a small saucepan over medium-high heat. Bring it to a boil and simmer for 2 min. The sugar should be completely dissolved. Remove from heat and set aside to cool. The syrup can be made in advance and held in the fridge up to one month. Use any extra for glazing other sweet-filled challahs, or save it for sweetening up your iced coffee or favorite cocktail. Bake the babkas for 20 min. Then, rotate the pans and lower the oven temperature to 300F. Bake for another 15-20 min, until the dough is golden brown and the seams between the twists have started to color just slightly. The chocolate should look quite dark but not black. Remove them from the oven and brush generously with syrup. Cool completely before devouring (and then pat yourself on the back for your notable willpower).

Notes: Want to bake some or all of your babkas another day? Instead of leaving them to rise a second time, place the shaped babkas directly into the freezer either in the loaf pans or consolidated on a sheet pan. Once frozen solid, wrap them individually with plastic wrap and aluminum foil and freeze for up to one week. ~5-6 hr before you're ready to bake, remove them from the freezer and remove the foil. If they were frozen in loaf pans, leave the plastic on to help wick away excess moisture as they defrost. If they were frozen on a sheet pan, remove the plastic, arrange the babkas on the sheet pan(s) with ~2" of space on all sides, then loosely cover again with the plastic. Let them defrost in a warm area for ~2-3 hr (alternatively, defrost in the fridge overnight to bake in the morning). Once the dough has defrosted, continue with proofing.
Babka will always be best the same day, but they'll hold well at room temperature up to three days after baking. Store the cooled babkas in a sealed container or wrapped in plastic.


