Chocolate Hazelnut Swirl Banana Bread
  --Rebel Girls Cook

Vegetable oil spray
3 very ripe bananas, peeled
1/4 c granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/3 c vegetable oil
1/4 c milk
1 tsp vanilla extract
2 c ap flour
1 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp table salt
1/2 c chocolate-hazelnut spread
2 tbsp chopped hazelnuts (optional)

Set an oven rack in the middle position and heat the oven to 350F. Spray the inside of a metal or glass loaf pan with vegetable oil spray. Place the bananas in a large bowl. Use a potato masher or a fork to mash the bananas until they’re broken down but not all the way smooth. Add the sugar, eggs, oil, milk, and vanilla and whisk until well combined. Add the flour, baking soda, and salt and use a rubber spatula to gently stir until all the ingredients are just combined and there’s no more dry flour (make sure to scrape along the bottom and sides of the bowl as you stir—more dry flour might be hiding there). Add the chocolate-hazelnut spread to a medium microwave-safe bowl. Heat it in the microwave until it’s loosened up (you can shake the bowl to check), 15-30 s. Use a 1/2 c dry measuring cup to scoop 1/2 c of the banana bread batter into the bowl with the chocolate-hazelnut spread. Whisk until well combined. Add half of the plain batter to the greased loaf pan and use the rubber spatula to spread it into an even layer. Use a spoon to dollop half of the chocolate-hazelnut batter onto the plain batter in the pan. Add the remaining plain batter on top and smooth it out with the rubber spatula. Dollop spoonfuls of the remaining chocolate hazelnut batter on top of that. Use a butter knife or chopstick to swirl the batters together. Sprinkle the top evenly with the hazelnuts (if using). Place the loaf pan in the oven and bake until a toothpick inserted into the center of the bread comes out mostly clean, with just a few moist crumbs attached, 1 hr to 1 hr 15 min. Use oven mitts to remove the loaf pan from the oven and place it on a cooling rack. Let the bread cool in the pan for 15 min. Use oven mitts to turn the loaf pan on its side and carefully remove the banana bread from the pan (be careful, the pan and the bread will still be hot—if the banana bread sticks, use a butter knife to gently loosen it from the sides of the loaf pan). Turn the bread upright and let it continue to cool on the cooling rack for at least 1 hr. 

