Cinnamon Roll Foccacia
  --King Arthur Test Kitchen

Dough:
3 c (360g) ap flour
1 3/4 tsp (11g) salt
1 tsp instant yeast
1 tsp granulated sugar
1 1/4 c (284g) water, warm (90F-110F)*
1 1/2 tbsp (18g) olive oil
1/4 c (35g) King Arthur Cinnamon Sweet Bits*

Weigh your flour; or measure it by gently spooning it into a cup, then sweeping off any excess. In a large bowl (a 3 qt bowl with a lid works great), whisk together the flour, salt, yeast, and sugar.  Add the water and olive oil and stir — with a spatula, bowl scraper, dough whisk, or your hands — until the mixture is thoroughly combined and homogeneous; there should be no dry patches or lumps. Cover the bowl and set it aside for 15 min. Use a wet hand to grab a section of dough from one side of the bowl, then lift it up and press it into the center. Repeat this motion, grabbing a new section of dough each time, until you’ve made a full circle around the bowl, ~8-12 times. Once you’ve circled the bowl, flip the dough over in the bowl so that the smooth side is up; the first bowl fold is now complete. Cover the bowl and let the dough rest for 15 min. Note: You’ll do this three more times over the next 45 min, strengthening the dough each time.  Repeat the bowl fold for a second time. (Remember to use a wet hand to prevent the dough from sticking!) At this point, the dough should feel smoother and tighter. Cover the bowl and let the dough rest for 15 min. Sprinkle about half of the Cinnamon Sweet Bits (2 tbsp or 18g) over the dough, then repeat the bowl fold for a third time, covering up the Cinnamon Sweet Bits as you fold. Cover the bowl and let the dough rest for 15 min. Sprinkle the remaining Cinnamon Sweet Bits over the dough, then repeat the bowl fold for a fourth and final time; the dough should feel relatively strong.  Cover the bowl and let the dough rise at a warm room temperature (70F-75F) for 1 hr; see this post, Where to put dough to rise, for tips. After 1 hr, the dough should have nearly doubled in size and will be very puffy; it may even have a few bubbles on the surface. 
  
Pan and topping:
3 tbsp (36g) olive oil, divided
1/3 c (71g) light brown sugar, packed
2 tbsp (28g) butter, softened
1 tbsp (5g) cinnamon

In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, butter, and cinnamon and mix until it forms a smooth, thick paste. Cover and set aside until the dough has risen. Toward the end of the rise, preheat the oven to 450F with a rack in the lower third. Once the dough has risen, spray the bottom and sides of a 9" square metal pan with nonstick spray. Fully line the pan with parchment so that there’s some excess overhanging the edges. Lightly spray the parchment with nonstick spray, add 1 tbsp (13g) of the olive oil, and tilt the pan to spread the oil evenly across the bottom. Use a bowl scraper or flexible spatula to gently transfer the risen dough to the center of the pan. Drizzle 1 tbsp (13g) of the olive oil over the dough. Cover the pan and let the dough rise at a warm room temperature for 1 - 1 1/2 hr, until it’s marshmallowy and jiggly; the dough should nearly fill the corners of the pan and be very close to the top edge. Lightly coat your fingers in oil. Starting at one edge, press your fingertips into the dough until they reach the bottom of the pan, creating dimples. Repeat this process, working your way from one edge to the other, spacing the dimples ~1 1/2" apart. The goal is to thoroughly dimple the dough without deflating it — aim for decisive yet gentle motions. If there are any large untouched areas of the dough, add additional dimples using one finger. Use your hands to distribute the brown sugar mixture all over the dough, aiming to fill in many of the dimples. Dimple the dough once more, pushing the brown sugar mixture into the dough. Drizzle the remaining 1 tbsp (13g) olive oil all over the surface of the dough. Bake the cinnamon roll focaccia on the lower rack for 15-20 min, until the topping is thick and bubbly and any exposed dough is deep golden brown. If the focaccia is browning too fast, tent it with foil after 15 min. Remove the focaccia from the oven. Using the parchment and a thin spatula for assistance, carefully transfer the focaccia to a wire rack to cool slightly.

Glaze:
3/4 c (85g) confectioners' sugar, sifted if lumpy
1 1/2 tbsp (21g) milk or heavy cream
1/2 tsp vanilla
pinch of table salt

In a small bowl, stir together the ingredients to make a smooth glaze; the consistency should resemble honey. Drizzle it all over the warm focaccia and allow it to set, 10-15 min. Cut into slices and serve the cinnamon roll focaccia slightly warm or at room temperature.


Notes: If you don’t have a 9" square pan: You can bake the focaccia in a 10" cast-iron skillet, a 9" x 13" metal pan, or a quarter-sheet pan. The focaccia will be slightly taller in the 10" cast iron skillet and thinner in a 9" x 13" pan or quarter-sheet pan.
