Jalapeno Cheddar Pull Apart Bread
  --Martin Philip

Dough:
3 c (360g) bread flour
1/4 c (39g) yellow cornmeal
2 tbsp (25g) sugar
2 1/2 tsp instant yeast
1 1/2 tsp salt
1 large egg yolk, at room temperature; white reserved
2 tbsp (28g) unsalted butter, at room temperature
3/4 c + 3 tbsp (212g) water, warm (95F - 105F)

Weigh your flour; or measure it by gently spooning it into a cup, then sweeping off any excess. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine the dough ingredients and mix on low until incorporated, ~2 min. Once there are no dry spots remaining, increase the speed to medium and knead until smooth, 6-8 min. Cover the bowl or transfer the dough to a lightly greased container (a 2 qt standard dough-rising bucket works well here). Allow the dough to proof until doubled in size, 1 - 1 1/2 hr. Transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface and roll it into a 12x16" rectangle, sprinkling with flour as necessary to prevent sticking. Cover the dough and allow it to rest for 10 min.

Filling:
3/4 c (100g) pickled jalapenos, at room temperature
6 tbsp (85g) unsalted butter, softened
2 c (227g) cheddar cheese, grated, at room temperature

Finely dice the pickled jalapeños, then in a small bowl, combine them with the softened butter. Mix vigorously with a flexible spatula until incorporated. Use a small offset spatula to spread the butter mixture over the surface of the dough, leaving a 1/2" border bare on all sides. Sprinkle the grated cheese over the top. Using a large knife, cut the dough into 12 4" squares. Lightly grease a 9x4" Pullman pan. Place the pieces of dough on top of each other, aligning the bare-borded edges, to form two neat stacks of six squares each. Transfer the stacks to the prepared pan and position them so the bare-border edges face upward (these will form the top of the loaf). The ends of the loaf should be two plain, non-cheesy sides; there will be two cheese-covered squares touching in the center of the pan. It’s OK if the stacks slightly slump when transferred to the pan. Cover the pan and allow the dough to rise at warm room temperature (70-75F) for 1 1/2 - 2 hr, until it reaches the top of the pan. Toward the end of the rise, preheat the oven to 425F with a rack in the center.  Whisk the egg white (reserved from the dough) and brush it all over the top of the loaf before baking. Place the bread in the oven (without the lid) and immediately reduce the temperature to 400F; bake for 32-36 min, until deep golden brown and firm. A digital thermometer inserted into the loaf's center should register at least 190F. Remove from the pan and place on a rack to cool briefly before pulling pieces off to serve, or cool fully before slicing.  

