Striped Lemon Poppy Seed Bread
  --Carolina Gelen

Heat the oven to 375F. Grease a 9x5" loaf pan and line it with parchment paper. Set the loaf pan on a sheet pan to catch any drips.

Poppy Seed Layer:
76 g (1/4 c) whole milk
192 g (1 1/3 c) poppy seeds
99 g (1/2 c) sugar
1 tsp vanilla
1 large egg
1 tsp finely grated lemon zest (from ~ 1/2 lemon)

Add the milk to a saucepan over medium heat and bring to a simmer. Mix in the poppy seeds, sugar, and vanilla. Simmer for 7-10 min, constantly stirring, until the mixture reaches the consistency of wet sand—somewhat spreadable but still crumbly. Let cool to room temperature (you can transfer the mixture to a wide bowl to speed things up). Once cool, stir in the egg and lemon zest.

Bread:
198 g (1 c) sugar
2 tbsp finely grated lemon zest (from ~2 lemons)
200 g (14 tbsp) unsalted butter, at room temperature
4 large eggs
57 g (1/4 c) freshly squeezed lemon juice (from ~2 lemons)
2 tbsp whole milk
1/2 tsp kosher salt
230 g (1 3/4 c + 2 tbsp) ap flour, sifted
1 tsp baking powder

Combine the sugar and lemon zest in the bowl of a stand mixer (or a bowl where you’ll use a hand mixer) and rub together with your fingers until fragrant. Add the butter and beat on medium speed for 3-5 min, until fluffy. Beat in the eggs, one at a time, mixing after each addition. Add the lemon juice, milk, and salt (don’t worry if it looks curdled). Add the flour and baking powder and lightly mix the two with your fingers or a fork. Now mix on low to fully incorporate, until there are no more dry streaks. In the lined pan, using a spoon or offset spatula, evenly spread a third of the batter (you can eyeball it). Using your fingers or an offset spatula, delicately spread half of the poppy seed mixture on top—try not to swirl the two mixtures in the process. Spread half of the remaining batter on top, followed by the remaining poppy seed mixture, followed by the remaining batter. Bake for 50-60 min, until bouncy to the touch and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out with no raw batter (some poppy seeds are okay). If the quick bread starts to brown too much toward the end, you can loosely tent the top with tin foil.

Soak:
57 g (1/4 c) freshly squeezed lemon juice (from ~2 lemons)
2 tbsp granulated sugar

Stir together the lemon juice and sugar until the sugar has dissolved. As soon as it’s out of the oven, pour the soak over the hot loaf. Let cool for 20-30 min, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.

Glaze (optional):
227 g (2 c) confectioners’ sugar
3 tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice + more as needed

If you’re including the glaze, add the confectioners’ sugar to a bowl. Whisk or stir in a tbsp of lemon juice in at a time, until the icing is smooth and reaches the consistency of melted chocolate. Pour the icing on the loaf and allow it to harden, then slice and serve.


