No Knead Bread
  --Ali, gimmesomeoven.com

Overnight version:
3 1/4 c (425 g) ap flour
2 tsp fine sea salt
1/2 tsp active dry yeast
1 1.2 c warm water (110F)

Stir together the flour, salt, yeast in a large mixing bowl until combined. Add the water and stir with wooden spoon or spatula until the dough is evenly mixed and no large flour straks remain. The dough will look quite loose and shaggy, which is ok. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let rest at room temp for 12-18 hrs. Transfer the dough to a well floured surface. Fold the dough on top of itself - pulling the outer edges up and into the center a few times until the dough feels a bit tighter and holds its shape - to form a round dough ball. If the dough is sticky or or feels too loose at any point, just keep sprinkling on extra flour as needed. Lightly flour the top of the dough ball then place on parchment paper and loosely cover it with plastic wrap to rest while the oven heats. Place dutch oven inside of your oven, then set temp to 450F. Very carefully, use oven mitts to remove dutch oven. Lift the edges of the parchment to carefully transfer the dough ball along with parchment to the dutch oven. Cover with lid and bake for 30 min. Then carefully remove the lid and bake for 10-20 min more, until the crust of the bread reaches your desired level of doneness. Remove from the oven and carefully lift up the edges of the parchment to transfer to a wire cooling rack. Cool for at least 30 min before slicing.



2hr version:
3 1/4 c (430 g) ap flour
2 tsp fine sea salt
1 tsp honey or sugar
1 packet (7 g) active dry yeast (2 1/4 tsp)
1 1/3 c warm water (110 F)

Stir together the flour, salt, sugar/honey, and yeast in a large mixing bowl until combined. Add in the water and stir with a wooden spoon or spatula until the dough is evenly mixed and no large flour streaks remain. The dough will look quite loose and shaggy, which is ok. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let rest at room temp for 1 hr. It should double in size during this time. Transfer the dough to a well floured surface. Fold the dough on top of itself - pulling the outer edges up and into the center a few times until the dough feels a bit tighter and holds its shape - to form a round dough ball. If the dough is sticky or or feels too loose at any point, just keep sprinkling on extra flour as needed. Lightly flour the top of the dough ball then place on parchment paper and loosely cover it with plastic wrap to rest while the oven heats. Place dutch oven inside of your oven, then set temp to 450F. Very carefully, use oven mitts to remove dutch oven. Lift the edges of the parchment to carefully transfer the dough ball along with parchment to the dutch oven. Cover with lid and bake for 30 min. Then carefully remove the lid and bake for 10-20 min more, until the crust of the bread reaches your desired level of doneness. Remove from the oven and carefully lift up the edges of the parchment to transfer to a wire cooling rack. Cool for at least 30 min before slicing.



Notes: If using enameled dutch oven, make sure it is very clean as any grease that remains will stain; very important to let the dutch oven come to temp with oven to avoid cracking. 
adds: 
  garlic: mince 1-2 cloves of fresh garlic and mix into dry ingredients
  herbs: chop fresh herbs (rosemary, sage, tarragon, etc) or dried herbs, mix into dry ingredients
  everything bagel seasoning: 1 tbsp into dry ingredients
  freshly cracked black pepper - add to dry ingredients
  parmesan: stir 1/4 - 1/2 c freshly grated parmesan into dry ingredients
  flaky sea salt - sprinkle a bit on top before baking (might want to reduce salt in dough if doing this)



