Ricotta filled Buttermilk Cornbread with Calabrian Chiles
  --Nora Singley

1 c (8 oz) high-quality whole milk ricotta
1 1/2 c + 3 tbsp well-shaken buttermilk (the low-fat versions work, too), divided
Kosher salt
5 tbsp unsalted butter
1 c ap flour
2/3 c medium grind cornmeal
3 tbsp sugar
2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda 
1 large egg 
3-4 tbsp Calabrian chiles in oil (to taste)

Preheat oven to 400F with rack in center. In a medium bowl, combine the ricotta, 3 tbsp of the buttermilk and 1/2 tsp salt. Stir until smooth and set aside. (This will be your topping.) Place a 10" cast iron skillet over medium heat. Add the butter. When melted, remove from the heat. In a large bowl, combine the flour, cornmeal, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and 2 tsp salt. Whisk to combine. Whisk together the egg and the remaining 1 1/2 c buttermilk in a medium bowl. Add to the dry ingredients and mix with a spoon until smooth. Add the butter from the skillet, swirling to grease the sides of the pan as you pour it out, and mix until smooth. Return the skillet over medium heat until warm, ~3 min. (This will jumpstart the golden crust on the cornbread.) The butter may begin to brown and smell– that’s ok (and good)! Turn off the burner and scrape the batter into the skillet. Smooth the top. Drop dollops of the ricotta mixture over the top of the batter, along with the Calabrian chiles (and their oil). Distribute in a haphazard way– no need to be precious about it! With a skewer or a few toothpicks, gently swirl the ricotta and the chiles over the top of the batter to distribute just a bit, making sure the toothpick goes all the way to the bottom of the batter. Don’t over-swirl… it’s tempting, I know. Transfer to the oven and bake, rotating halfway through, until the edges of the cornbread are golden and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, ~24-28 min. Let cool for ~30 min before slicing and serving. Store any leftovers covered on a plate rather than in the cast iron skillet, so as to prevent any transference of flavor from the skillet to the cornbread.



Notes: uses medium grind cornmeal

