Chai Spiced Zucchini Muffins
  --Asha Loupy

1 1/2 c (129g) raw, shelled walnuts
2 c (240g) ap flour
1 1/2 tbsp (9g) Chai Spice Blend
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1 1/4 tsp salt
1/4 c (24g) rolled oats
2 tbsp (24g) + 1/3 c (64g) Madhur Jaggery or light brown sugar
1 tsp cinnamon
2 tbsp (28g) unsalted butter, softened
2 medium zucchini (~10-12 oz or 283–340g total)
1/2 c (113g) plain, full-fat yogurt
1/2 c (118ml) canola oil, or other neutral oil
1/3 c (64g)  sugar
2 large eggs
2 tbsp (30ml) molasses
1 1/2 tsp vanilla

Preheat the oven to 375F. Line muffin tin with paper liners and set aside. Place the walnuts on a sheet tray in a single layer and roast until deeply toasted, 11-14 min. Remove from the oven, leaving the oven on, and let cool for at least 20 min while you make the muffin batter. (Alternatively, you can also buy already roasted, unsalted nuts and skip this step.) Combine the flour, Chai Spice Blend, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl and mix well. Then, to make the topping, place 1/3 c of the roasted walnuts in a mortar and gently crush into smaller pieces, smashing some into a medium-coarse powder and leaving most the size of dried chickpeas. (Alternatively, you can roughly chop the walnuts and place them in a small bowl.) Add the oats, 2 tbsp jaggery, cinnamon, and 1/4 c (30g) of the dry ingredients to the walnuts and toss to combine. Add the softened butter, and using your fingers, rub the butter into the walnut mixture until all the ingredients are incorporated and it looks moistened and clumps together. Place in the refrigerator until ready to use. Remove and discard the stems from the zucchini and grate on the small side of a box grater. Then taking a handful at a time squeeze as much liquid as you can out of them, placing the squeezed zucchini back on the plate or cutting board you grated them onto. (Alternatively, you can put them in cheesecloth or a clean kitchen linen to squeeze, but really no need to be too precious about it.) To finish the batter, combine the yogurt, canola oil, sugar, eggs, vanilla, and remaining 1/3 c jaggery in a large bowl and whisk until smooth and the sugar is mostly dissolved. Then add the dry ingredients and gently whisk until almost all the dry ingredients are combined and there are only a few streaks of flour. Roughly chop the remaining roasted walnuts and add them to the batter along with the squeezed grated zucchini, breaking the zucchini up with your fingers as you add it. Using a spatula, fold the zucchini and nuts into the batter until fully incorporated and no dry streaks remain. Fill each muffin cup 3/4 of the way full, then divide the reserved walnut-crumble mixture between the 12 muffins (if you want bigger crumbles, you can squeeze the crumble mixture together creating larger chunks). Bake until puffed, lightly golden on top, and a toothpick can be inserted with only a few crumbs clinging to it when removed, 22-26 min. Let the muffins cool in the tin for 15 min before removing and serving warm or letting cool completely on a wire rack. Muffins can be kept in an airtight container for up to 4 days, or frozen for up to 6 months. (To defrost, just put it in the fridge overnight or on the counter for a few hours.)

