Healthy Apple Muffins
  --Cookie and Kate

1 3/4 c white whole wheat flour or regular whole wheat flour
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1/2 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
1 c grated apple
1 c apple diced into 1/4" cubes
1/2 cup melted coconut oil or evoo
1/2 c maple syrup or honey*
2 eggs, preferably at room temperature
1/2 c plain Greek yogurt (I used full-fat but any variety should do)
1/2 c applesauce
1 tsp vanilla 
1 tbsp turbinado sugar to sprinkle on top

Preheat oven to 425 F. If not using non-stick, grease all 12 cups on your muffin tin with butter or non-stick cooking spray. In a large mixing bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, cinnamon, baking soda and salt. Blend well with a whisk. Add the grated apple (if it is dripping wet, gently squeeze it over the sink to release some extra moisture) and chopped apple. Stir to combine. In a medium mixing bowl, combine the oil and maple syrup and beat together with a whisk. Add the eggs and beat well, then add the yogurt, applesauce and vanilla and mix well. (If the coconut oil solidifies in contact with cold ingredients, gently warm the mixture in the microwave in 30 s bursts.) Pour the wet ingredients into the dry and mix with a big spoon, just until combined (a few lumps are ok). The batter will be thick, but don’t worry! Divide the batter evenly between the 12 muffin cups. Sprinkle the tops of the muffins with turbinado sugar. Bake muffins for 13-16 min, or until the muffins are golden on top and a toothpick inserted into a muffin comes out clean. Place the muffin tin on a cooling rack to cool. If you have leftover muffins, store them, covered, at room temperature for up to 2 days, or in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. Freeze leftover muffins for up to 3 months.


Notes: If using honey, bake at 325F for 23-25 min. Can be made with gf flour
vegan: replace eggs with flax eggs and yogurt with non-dairy buttermilk and use maple syrup
In my oven, these were done in 13 min at 325F; took ~1.5 grated apples to make 1 c, and 3/4 diced for 1 c (med granny smith)
