Olympic Chocolate Muffins
  --Kassie Mendieta

Muffins:
200 g ap flour
70 g Dutch-processed cocoa powder
1/4 tsp baking powder
3/4 tsp baking soda
1 tsp instant espresso/coffee powder (if you’d like to skip adding instant coffee, you can sub for cold coffee instead)
2 tsp kosher salt
275 g light brown sugar
1 tbsp + 1 tsp milk powder
100 g whole milk
150 g vegetable oil or neutral oil of your choice
2 large eggs (100 g)
225 g sour cream
1 tbsp vanilla
115 g semisweet or dark chocolate chunks (+ extra for the tops)
115 g milk chocolate chips or chunks (+ extra for the tops)

In a large bowl, add dry ingredients; whisk to combine. In a separate bowl, add wet ingredients; whisk to combine. Add the wet ingredients into the center of the dry ingredients; whisk to combine, just until no dry pockets remain — you do not want to overmix the batter. Gently fold in the chocolate chunks with a rubber spatula. Set the batter aside for 30-60 min to rest before baking. While the batter rests, preheat the oven to 420F and prep the filling.

Filling:
130 g water
95 g sugar
35 g Dutch-processed cocoa powder
20 g corn syrup
1/2 tsp kosher salt
80 g heavy cream
140 g dark chocolate chips, preferably 70% and above for a really rich filling; use semisweet if you don’t like it as rich

In a saucepot, combine the water, sugar, cocoa powder, salt, and corn syrup. Bring this mixture to a boil over medium-heat, stirring often to avoid burning the cocoa powder.Once the mixture reaches a boil, drop the heat to medium-low, cook it while stirring frequently until it reduces by ~1/3 of its original volume, 5-8 min. Add the heavy cream and allow to boil for another 2 min. Pour the mixture over the dark chocolate chips. Allow the mixture to sit for a few moments to heat up the chips before whisking to combine. Optionally you can use an immersion blender to really get things nice and smooth. Set aside to cool until it’s time to fill the muffins. 

Once the batter is done resting, place the muffin liners in every other cavity of the muffin pan. Scoop the batter in to the liners. For jumbo muffins, each cup should be filled a little over 3/4 of the way full and will hold 150-160 g of batter. Bake for 6 min. When the timer beeps, do not open the oven! Drop the temp to 350F and bake for an additional 15-18 min. Muffins are done baking when the center is set and a tooth pick inserted into the center comes out with a few crumbs stuck to it, or when the internal temp is 200-205 F. Remove from baking pan and allow to cool completely before filling.

Once the muffins have cooled, you have a few options on how to fill:

 - Fill a piping bag with the cooled fudge filling, cut the tip, insert into the center of the muffin and fill.
 - Cut out a small crater in the center of the muffin using a paring knife and use a spoon to fill the hole with the sauce.
 - Should you have a squeeze bottle lying around, this can also be used similarly to the piping bag to fill the muffin.

Store the leftover muffins in the freezer. Wrap them in plastic wrap and store in an airtight container. When ready to eat, allow to thaw at room temp for 90 min. I promise, the freezer will change things for you. The filling doesn’t magically become molten again; rather, it stays a little creamier/fudgier, but I attribute that to the fact that these don’t have any of the crazy emulsifiers a mass-produced muffin does.

