Apple Cider Snickerdoodles
  --Molly Marzalek-Kelly

Dough:
8 tbsp (113g) unsalted butter
3/4 c (149g) granulated sugar
2 tbsp (43g) boiled cider
1 large egg
1 tsp vanilla
1 1/2 c (180g) ap flour or gf ap flour
1 1/4 tsp apple pie spice
1 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp salt

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the flat beater attachment or working in a large bowl with an electric hand mixer, cream the butter and sugar until light and fluffy, ~3-5 min at medium speed. Beat in the boiled cider, followed by the egg and vanilla and continue mixing until combined. Stop the mixer and scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl. Add the flour, apple pie spice, baking powder, and salt and mix until a dough forms and there are no visible streaks of flour. Transfer the dough to a small bowl and chill, covered, in the refrigerator for at least 4 hr, or overnight. Once the dough has chilled, preheat the oven to 375F with racks in the upper and lower thirds. Lightly grease 2 baking sheets or line them with parchment. 

Coating:
3 tbsp (37g) sugar
1 tsp apple pie spice

In a small bowl or medium zip-top bag, mix the sugar and apple pie spice until well blended. Scoop the cookie dough into 2 tbsp portions (~36g each) and roll into balls; a 2 tbsp Scoop works well here. Working with one piece at a time, transfer the portioned dough into the bowl or bag and roll or toss in the coating until completely covered. Arrange the cookies on the prepared baking sheets, spacing them at least 2" apart. Sprinkle the remaining coating on top of the cookies (you’ll use ~1/8 tsp per cookie). Bake the cookies for 12-15 min, swapping the position of the pans (top to bottom and back to front) halfway through. The cookies are done when they're domed, with fully set, golden brown edges; the center of each cookie should still be soft. Remove the cookies from the oven and allow them to cool completely on the baking sheet. 


Notes: Apple Pie Spice, combine the following spices in a small bowl: 1 tsp cinnamon, 3/4 tsp nutmeg, and 1/2 tsp allspice. Use 1 1/4 tsp of this spice mixture in the dough and use the remaining 1 tsp in the coating.  


