Caramel Crunch Chocolate Chunkley Cookies
  --Dorie Greenspan

2 sticks (8 oz; 226 g) unsalted butter, cut into chunks, at room temperature
1/2 c (100 g) sugar
1/2 c (60 g) confectioners’ sugar
1/2 tsp fine sea salt
1 tsp vanilla 
2 c (272 g) ap flour
3 oz (85 g) dark or milk chocolate chopped into small chunks
~1/2 c (60 g) coarsely chopped walnuts, toasted or not (or more chocolate chunks)

Working in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. or in a large bowl with a hand mixer, beat the butter, both sugars and the salt together on medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes. Beat in the vanilla. Turn off the mixer, scrape down the bowl and add the flour all at once. Pulse the mixer a few times, just until the risk of flying flour has passed, and then, working on low speed, beat until the flour is almost completely incorporated, a couple of min. Don’t beat too much—you want the mixture to be more clumpy than smooth. Still working on low speed, mix in the chocolate and nuts. Then finish incorporating the chunky ingredients with a flexible spatula. Turn the dough out onto the work surface and knead it to bring it together. Divide the dough in half and shape each hunk into a 6" long log (the rolls will be a scant 2" in diameter). Wrap each log well and refrigerate until firm, at least 2 hr. (You can refrigerate the logs for up to 3 days. Or you can freeze them, wrapped airtight, for up to 2 months; let stand at room temperature for ~1 hr before slicing and baking, or defrost in the fridge overnight.) Center a rack in the oven and preheat it to 350 F. (If you can’t fit two muffin tins on one rack in your oven, position the racks to divide the oven into thirds.) Butter 2 regular-size muffin tins—you can use bakers’ spray, but butter is really nicer for these. One at a time, mark each log at 1/2" intervals and, working with a chef’s knife, cut into rounds. Place each puck in a muffin cup. Bake for 20-22 min, rotating the pans if necessary, or until the cookies are golden on top, browned around the edges and slightly soft in the Makes ~38 cookies center; they’ll firm as they cool. Transfer the pans to racks and let rest for 3 min, then gently pry each cookie out with the tip of a table knife and place on the racks to cool. You can serve the cookies warm, but their texture shines brighter at room temperature. 
