Caramel Coconut Macaroon Thumbprint
--Sally McKenney

Caramel sauce:
1 c (200g) sugar (make sure it’s labeled “pure cane”)*
6 tbsp (85g) unsalted butter, at room temperature and sliced into 6 pieces
1/2 c (120ml) heavy cream, at room temperature
1 tsp salt

Heat granulated sugar in a medium heavy-duty stainless steel saucepan (do not use nonstick) over medium heat, stirring constantly with a high heat-resistant silicone spatula or wooden spoon. Sugar will form clumps and eventually melt into a thick brown, amber-colored liquid as you continue to stir. On my stove, this takes ~6 min. Be careful not to burn it. Once sugar is completely melted, immediately stir in the butter until melted and combined. Be careful in this step because the caramel will bubble rapidly when the butter is added. If you notice the butter separating or if the sugar clumps up, remove from heat and vigorously whisk to combine it again. (If you’re nervous for splatter, wear kitchen gloves. Keep whisking until it comes back together, even if it takes 3–4 min. It will eventually—just keep whisking. Return to heat when it’s combined again. After the butter has melted and combined with the caramelized sugar, stir constantly as you very slowly pour in the heavy cream. Since the heavy cream is colder than the hot caramel, the mixture will rapidly bubble when added. After all the heavy cream has been added, stop stirring and allow to boil for 1 min. It will rise in the pan as it boils. If you’d like to be precise and use a candy thermometer, the temperature will rise to ~220F (104C). Remove from heat and stir in the salt. The caramel will be a thin liquid at this point. Allow to slightly cool down before using. Caramel thickens considerably as it cools. Cover tightly and store for up to 1 month in the refrigerator. Caramel solidifies in the refrigerator. Reheat in the microwave or on the stove to desired consistency.

Cookies:
17 oz (482g) sweetened shredded coconut (one 14-ounce bag + 1 cup)
1/2 c (100g) granulated sugar
1/4 tsp salt
1 tsp vanilla  
1 large egg
2 large egg whites
1/2 c (145g) homemade salted caramel sauce, cooled (see Note)
4 oz bar (113g) semi-sweet chocolate, finely chopped
optional: sprinkle of flaky sea salt

Preheat oven to 325F (163C). Line large baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats. Set aside. Place the coconut in a food processor and pulse until finely chopped (~15 quick pulses). If you don’t have a food processor, spread the coconut out on a cutting board and give it all a rough chop. In a large bowl using a hand mixer or a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, beat the egg, egg whites, sugar, salt, and vanilla together on medium-high speed until the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is frothy, ~1–2 min. Fold in the coconut until completely combined. Using a medium cookie scoop or a spoon, scoop 1.5 tbsp (~30g) of the mixture and arrange 2 inches apart on prepared baking sheets. With your thumb, finger, or a small measuring spoon, press into the center of each macaroon to make an indent. Bake until lightly golden and set around the edges, 20–24 min. Keep a close eye on them after around 18 minutes. You want to take them out of the oven when they’re starting to turn a toasty, golden color but are still mostly white; over-baking will dry out your coconut macaroons. Cool for at least 10 min on the baking sheet set on a cooling rack. Spoon salted caramel into the middles of the macaroons (use however much will fit ~1/2–1 tsp each). Melt the chocolate: You can melt it in a double boiler or use the microwave. If using the microwave: place the chocolate in a medium heat-proof bowl or glass liquid measuring cup. Microwave for 20 s increments, stirring after each, until chocolate is completely melted and smooth. Drizzle chocolate over the cooled macaroons. Sprinkle with flaky sea salt, if desired. Allow chocolate and caramel to set, either at room temperature or in the refrigerator (to speed it up). Cover and store macaroons at room temperature for up to 3 days or in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
