Cocoa Sugar Cookies
  --Cook's Illustrated

cookies:
1 large egg
1 1/2 tsp espresso powder
3/4 tsp salt
1/2 tsp vanilla
2 1/2 c (12 1/2 oz) ap flour
1/3 c dutch process cocoa powder
1/4 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp baking soda
1 c (7 oz) granulated sugar
16 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1/2" pieces and chilled

Whisk eggs, espresso powerder, salt, and vanilla together in small bowl. Whisk flour, cocoa, baking powder, and baking soda together in second bowl. Process sugar in food processor until finely ground, ~30 s. Add butter and process until uniform mass forms and no large pieces of butter are visible, ~30 s, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Add egg mixture and process until smooth and paste like, ~10 s. Add flour mixture and process until no dry flour remains but mixture remains crumbly, ~30 s, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Turn dough out onto worksurface; knead gently by hand until smooth, ~10 s. Divide dough in half. Place 1 piece of dough in center of large sheet of parchment paper and press into 7x9" oval. Place second large sheet of parchment over dough and roll dough into 10x14" oven of even 1/8" thickness. Transfer dough with parchment to rimmed baking sheet. Repeat with second piece of dough, then stack on first piece on sheet. Refrigerate until dough is firm, at least 1 1/2 hr or freeze for 30 min. Can be wrapped in plastic and refrigerated for up to 5 days. Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heat oven to 300F. Line rimless sheet with parchment. Working with 1 piece of dolled dough, gently peel of top layer of parchment; replace parchment, loosely covering dough. Turn dough over and gently peel of and discard second piece of parchment. Using cookie cutter, cut dough into shapes. Transfer shapes to prepared cookie sheet, spacing them ~1/2" apart. Bake until cookies show slight resistance to touch, 14-17 min, rotating sheet halfway through. Let cookies cool on sheet for 5 min. Transfer to wire rack and let cool completely. Repeat cutting and baking with remaining dough. Scraps can be patted together, rerolled, and chilled once before baking.

royal icing:
2 2/3 c (10 2/3 oz) confectioners' sugar
2 large egg whites
1/2 tsp vanilla
1/8 tps salt

Using stand mixer fitted with whisk, whip all ingredients on medium low speed until combined, ~1 min. Increase speed to medium high and whip until glossy, soft peaks form, 3-4 min, scraping down bowl as needed. Spread icing onto cooled cookies. Let icing dry completely, ~1 1/2 hr, before serving


Notes: Can add 1-2 drops food coloring to the icing. To make icing pourable, whisk in milk, 1 tsp at a time, until desired consistency is reached. Can decorate cookies with sanding sugar or sprinkles before baking.
