Florentine Lace with Pistachios
  --Rick Martinez
  
1 1/4 c raw, unsalted pistachios
6 tbsp salted butter
5 tbsp honey
1/4 c granulated sugar
1 tbsp crema, sour cream, full-fat yogurt, or heavy cream
1 pinch kosher salt
1/4 c (32g) ap flour
1 tsp ground canela or cinnamon
7 ounces bittersweet chocolate (70% cacao), chopped

Arrange rack to center of oven and heat to 350F. On a rimmed baking sheet, lightly toast pistachios until just beginning to brown, 6-8 min. Let cool, finely chop and set aside until ready to use. While the pistachios are cooling, line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, bring butter, sugar, honey, crema, and a large pinch kosher salt to a boil, stirring occasionally, until sugar has completely dissolved. Remove from heat. Add pistachios, flour, and canela and stir until completely combined. Let the batter sit for 5 min to set. Increase oven temperature to 375F. Scoop tbsp-sized mounds of batter onto the prepared baking sheets and flatten slightly, leaving 2" between each mound to allow for the cookies to spread. Bake, rotating the sheets halfway through, until deep golden brown and bubbly, 11-13 min. Cookies will burn quickly so watch closely in the final minutes of the bake. Let cookies cool on baking sheets for 10 min, then transfer to a rack to cool completely. Repeat scooping, baking, and cooling process with remaining batter. Bring 1 c water to a gentle simmer. When the water’s boiling, set a small heatproof bowl over the top without letting the bowl touch the water. Add half of the chocolate into the bowl and stir until melted; using a candy thermometer to measure, you’ll want the chocolate to reach a temperature of 132F. Remove the bowl from the saucepan, add the rest of the chocolate, and stir gently until the chocolate has cooled to 83F. Place bowl back onto double boiler and heat chocolate, stirring constantly, until chocolate is 88F. Remove from heat. Working quickly so the chocolate doesn’t harden, use a clean pastry brush to paint the bottom of each cooled cookie with melted chocolate. Let cool, chocolate-side up, on a rack until set. Store in an airtight container and enjoy for up to a week.


Notes. can ckip the crema, just add extra tbsp of butter. can swap 1 c almonds + 1/4 c coconut for the pistachios (really can use whatever nut you have on hand) can skip tempering the chocolate and just melt and paint (or skip chocolate altogether)
