Khao Yum
  --Pim Techamuanvivit

Rice:
1 c jasmine rice
1 1/4 c water
1/4 tsp tumeric powder
pinch of salt

Put rice in a fine sieve and place under running water until the water runs almost clear. Let drain completely. Add the rice to a small saucepan. Add water, turmeric powder, and salt, then stir and let stand for 10 min. Bring the pot to a boil over medium heat. Then, reduce the heat as low as possible, close the lid, and continue to cook over gentle heat for 12 min. Turn the heat off, and let the pot stand, undisturbed, for 15 min. Then open the lid and fluff up the rice with a fork. The rice is now ready to serve. You'll only need about two cups of cooked rice for the recipe. Reserve the rest for another use.

Sauce:
1/2 c tamarind pulp
1 c hot water
1 tbsp light shoyu
1 tsp sugar
1 tsp toasted black sesame seeds

In a mixing bowl, break up the tamarind pulp into small pieces and pour hot water over it. Using a wooden spoon, break up the tamarind even more into the water. Let stand until the mixture is cool enough to touch. With your hands, squeeze and squish to mix the tamarind paste and water until it becomes thick and muddy. Strain the tamarind mix and discard the pulp. Use about 1/2 c of this for the sauce. The rest can be kept in the fridge for up to a week. Add the tamarind, soy, and sugar and bring to a simmer. Because the acidity of the tamarind and salinity of the soy sauce vary so much depending on the brand you use, it is very important to only use the measurement as a guide. Taste your sauce and add more tamarind, soy, or sugar as needed. The sauce should taste sour, salty, and sweet, in that order. Add the toasted sesame seeds when you are done seasoning it.

Garnish:
2 tbsp puffed rice
2 tbsp toasted coconut flakes
2 tbsp fried shallots

Mix together and set aside.

Salad:
1 tbsp very thinly sliced lemongrass (use only tender heart of stalk)
1 tbsp very thinly sliced makrut lime leaves
1/4 c shredded green mango or green apples or another lightly sour, crunchy fruit
1/4 c crunchy beans long beans, wing beans, or simple sugarsnap peas will work for this; cut them into thin slices
Some not-too-sweet citrus, like finger limes or grapefruits (cut into small segments)
A handful of bitter greens, watercress, mizuna, or other tender, herbaceous greens

To serve, place ~2 c of cooked rice in a mound in the middle of a serving plate, arrange all the mix-ins around the plate. Serve the sauce on the side to be mixed in at the table. When ready to serve, pour ~1/2 c of the sauce over everything and mix well. Add more sauce if you'd like.

