Meltaway Chocolate Chip Cookies
  --Nik Sharma

3/4 c (165 g) unsalted butter, cubed and softened to room temperature
1 1/4 c (180 g) ap flour
1/2 c (70 g) custard powder, preferably Bird’s
1/2 c + 1 tbsp (70 g) confectioners’ sugar
1/2 tsp instant espresso powder or instant coffee
2 tbsp whole milk
1/4 tsp vanilla extract
5 1/4 oz (150 g) bittersweet chocolate chips (or chopped bittersweet chocolate)
Flaky salt, for sprinkling (optional)

Add the butter to the bowl of a stand mixer and beat with the paddle attachment until it turns pale and fluffy, ~3 min. Remove the bowl from the mixer and, using a fine-mesh sieve, sift the flour, custard powder, confectioners’ sugar, and espresso powder on top of the butter. Return to the mixer and mix on low speed until the mixture begins to resemble cookie crumbs. Scrape the sides of the bowl down with a bowl scraper or rubber spatula. Add the milk and vanilla and mix on medium speed until you get a smooth dough, ~1 min. Add the chocolate chips and mix on medium speed for about 30 seconds until evenly distributed. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and transfer the dough to a sheet of parchment paper or a container. Divide the dough by weight into 20 equal pieces. Shape each into a 2"/5cm circular disk. The cookie dough can be frozen for up to 1 month, if wrapped with plastic wrap and separated by parchment paper. To bake the cookies, place two wire racks in the middle of the oven and heat to 350F (180C). Line two baking sheets with parchment paper and add the cookies, each ~1" (2 1/2 cm) apart. The cookies will not spread during baking. Sprinkle with flaky salt if you’d like (there’s salt in the custard powder so I personally skip this). Bake for 15-25 min, until the edges start to turn golden brown, swapping the baking sheets between the racks and rotating them halfway through during baking. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheets for ~5 min, then carefully transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely. Store the cooled cookies in an airtight container for up to 1 week. 
