Miso Buttered Toast Cookies
  --Lungi Mhlanga
  
Toast Flakes:
3 slices sourdough bread, toasted (~120g-150g)
~1 tbsp salted butter

Toast sourdough for 3-4 min in your toaster. You want them nice and golden but not burnt! Immediately when they come out, butter them with your salted butter and add to your food processor. In a food processor, break your toast into pieces and blend until you get small flakes/chunks (around the size of flakey salt pieces). If you have a few larger chunks that’s great for texture. Weigh 60g of the toast flakes into a separate bowl and set aside. This will be the toast that goes into our dough. Put the remaining toast flakes into a bowl and set aside. This will be the toast flakes that we roll the outside of our cookie dough in.

Dough:
50g unsalted butter, cold and cubed (cube then refrigerate until needed)
80g unsalted butter, browned
1 1/2 tsp white miso paste (if you don’t have miso, just remove it and increase the salt below to 1/2 tsp)
165g sugar
60g muscavado or dark brown soft sugar
1 large egg + 1 yolk
1 tsp vanilla
1 tbsp black treacle (30g) or moleasses
250g plain/ap flour
1/2 tsp baking soda
1/4 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp salt (if skipping the miso increase salt to 1/2 tsp)
125g blonde chocolate bar broken into chunks
155g white chocolate bar broken into chunks

In a small saucepan, melt the 80g of unsalted butter for the brown butter over medium heat. Cook until deeply golden, you can see really dark flakes at the bottom of the pot and the aroma is nutty. Remove from the heat and allow to cool for 30 min. In the bowl of a stand mixer (or using an electric whisk), add the cold cubed butter, cooled brown butter, miso paste, granulated sugar and muscavado/dark brown soft sugar. Mix until combined and creamy but not overly aerated ~2-3 min. Scrape down the bowl and add the egg, egg yolk, vanilla and black treacle. Mix until fully incorporated ~1-2 min. In a separate bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Add the dry ingredients to the wet mixture and mix on low speed until just combined and a few flour streaks still remain. Do not overmix. Now fold through the 220g of broken chunks of chocolate, reserving 60g for the topping, along with the 60g of toast flakes that you set aside earlier for the dough. Portion the dough into large 80-90g balls (10–12 cookies). Roll briefly to smooth. Roll each dough ball liberally in the remaining toast flakes, pressing gently so they adhere to the outside. You want the cookie dough ball completely covered in the toast flakes! Place the cookies onto a parchment lined tray and refrigerate for at least 1 hr, but ideally 12 hr (I did 24hrs to really develop flavour and hydrate the flour, but this is optional). Preheat the oven to 190C. Arrange the chilled cookies on a lined baking tray, leaving plenty of space between each, at least 3". Bake for 8-10 min until lightly golden at the edges and just set in the centre. The toast on the outside should be golden but not burnt. Straight from the oven, press the reserved 60g chocolate chunks into the tops of the cookies, whilst they are still hot. Now using a cookie cutter or a large bowl/glass, shape the cookies into circles if needed, also whilst they are still hot. Allow the cookies to cool on the tray for 5–10 min before transferring to a rack to cool completely. And enjoy!



Notes: Can freeze unbaked dough for up to 3 months, then bake for 3-4 min longer from frozen. If salt sensitive, decrease miso to 1 tsp.
