Pistachio Spice Biscotti
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
1 1/4 c (5 1/2 oz) shelled pistachios, lightly toasted
1 3/4 c (8 3/4 oz) ap flour
2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp ground cardamom
1/2 tsp ground cloves
1/2 tsp ground black pepper
1/4 tsp cinnamon
1/4 tsp ground ginger
1/4 tsp salt
2 large eggs + 1 large white beaten with pinch salt
1 c (7 oz) sugar
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 tsp water
1 tsp vanilla 
Vegetable oil spray

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 325 F. Using ruler and permanent marker, draw two 8x3" rectangles, spaced 4" apart, on piece of parchment paper. Grease baking sheet and place parchment on it, ink side down. Pulse 1 c pistachios in food processor until coarsely chopped, 8-10 pulses; transfer to bowl and set aside. Process remaining 1/4 c pistachios in food processor until finely ground, ~45 s. Add flour, baking powder, cardamom, cloves, pepper, cinnamon, ginger, and salt; process to combine, ~15 s. Transfer flour mixture to bowl. Process 2 eggs in now-empty food processor until lightened in color and almost doubled in volume, ~3 min. With processor running, slowly add sugar until thoroughly combined, ~15 s. Add melted butter, water, and vanilla; process until combined, ~10 s. Transfer egg mixture to medium bowl. Sprinkle half of flour mixture over egg mixture and, using spatula, gently fold until just combined. Add remaining flour mixture and chopped pistachios and gently fold until just combined. Divide batter in half. Using floured hands, form each half into 8x3" rectangle, using lines on parchment as guide. Spray each loaf lightly with oil spray. Using rubber spatula lightly coated with oil spray, smooth tops and sides of rectangles. Gently brush tops of loaves with egg white wash. Bake until loaves are golden and just beginning to crack on top, 25-30 min, rotating pan halfway through baking. Let loaves cool on baking sheet for 30 min. Transfer loaves to cutting board. Using serrated knife, slice each loaf on slight bias into 1/2" thick slices. Lay slices, cut side down, ~1/4" apart on wire rack set in rimmed baking sheet. Bake until crisp and golden brown on both sides, ~35 min, flipping slices halfway through baking. Let cool completely before serving. Biscotti can be stored in airtight container for up to 1 month. 

