Preserved Lemon Crinkle Cookies
  --Jesse Szewczyk
  
1 stick (8 tbsp/113 g) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 c (267 g) granulated sugar, divided
2 tbsp (20 g) chopped preserved lemon peel (see Notes)
2 large eggs, at room temperature
1 tbsp vanilla extract
2 1/2 c spooned and leveled sp flour (320 g)
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
3/4 c (75 g) confectioners’ sugar

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter, 1 c (200 g) of the granulated sugar, and the chopped preserved lemon peel. Beat on medium speed until light and fluffy, scraping down the sides and bottom of the bowl halfway through, 2-3 min. Turn the mixer off, add the eggs and vanilla extract, and mix until pale yellow and very light, 2-3 min. Turn the mixer off, add the flour and baking powder, and mix on low speed just until a soft dough forms, 1-2 min. Tightly cover the bowl with plastic and chill in the refrigerator for at least 2 hr (overnight or a few days ahead is fine). As the dough chills, place the remaining 1/3 c (67 g) granulated sugar in a shallow, wide bowl or on a plate and put the confectioners’ sugar in a second shallow bowl or on a plate. Heat the oven to 350F and set the racks at the upper-middle and lower-middle positions. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or nonstick baking mats. Using a medium 1 3/4" (#40) cookie scoop or 2 tbsp, portion out the dough and roll into balls. Working with one dough ball at a time, roll in the granulated sugar, then in the confectioners’ sugar, then roll in the palms of your hands above the bowl of confectioners’ sugar to reshape them. Place the dough balls 3" apart on the prepared baking sheets (11 per sheet). Bake both sheets at the same time, swapping the top sheet to the bottom rack and bottom sheet to the top midway through baking, until the cookies are puffed, the cracks no longer look wet, and the dough feels soft but resists slightly when poked with a finger (it shouldn’t cave in), 13-15 min. Let cool completely on the baking sheets. 



Notes:2 medium preserved lemons will yield ~2 tbsp of chopped peel. To prepare them, run the preserved lemons under cold water to wash off some of the salt, then cut the peels into quarters. Using your fingers or a fork, pull the peel away from the flesh, and finely chop the peel. You will only use the peel in this recipe. The dough can be stored in the bowl in the refrigerator, tightly covered with plastic wrap, for several days before baking. If the dough is too hard to portion, let it sit at room temperature for 10 min and try again.


Preserved lemons:
  --epicurious
6 thin-skinned lemons, scrubbed, trimmed at both ends, and cut lengthwise into sixths
6 tbsp coarse salt
~1 c fresh lemon juice

In a baking dish just large enough to hold the lemons in one layer toss the lemons with the salt, pour enough of the lemon juice over them to just cover them, and bake the lemons, covered, in a preheated 200F. oven, stirring occasionally, for 3 hr. Let the lemons cool and transfer them with their brine to an airtight container. The preserved lemons keep, covered and chilled, indefinitely. Makes ~1 pint.

