Pretzel Shortbread Cookies
  --Chocolate for Basil

Cookies:
1/4 c baking soda + 1/2 c water
3/4 c + 5 tbsp-whole wheat pastry flour
1/2 c + 2 tbsp pretzel flour*
1/2 c turbinado sugar aka sugar in the raw
1/2 tsp salt
1/8 tsp baking soda
1/2 c melted butter or neutral oil (Ive tried this with both dairy-free butter and regular butter and recommend using oil instead of DF butter if you want them without dairy)
pretzel salt or coarse sea salt, for sprinkling

Preheat the oven to 350F.In small bowl combine the baking soda and water together and set aside.In a blender, process the sugar, salt, and 1/8 tsp baking powder, scraping down the sides of the blender as you go, until the mixture resembles powdered sugar. Add in the pretzel flour, blending until completely fine, still stopping to scrape down the sides of the blender. Add in the whole wheat pastry flour, reserving the final 5 tbsp, and blend to combine. Then add in the melted butter, and process until a batter is formed. Transfer to a mixing bowl and then add in the final tbsp of flour to stiffen the dough. Roll the dough out between 2 sheets of parchment and then cut the dough into 2X3" rectangles, rolling out the scrap dough until all the dough is used. Transfer the cookies to a baking sheet, and using a pastry brush, brush the tops with the baking soda mixture, giving the solution a good stir before each application. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and bake in the over for ~15-20 min or until the cookies turn deep brown on the surface and are cooked through. Remove from the oven and allow to cool.

Ganache:
3.5 oz bar of dark chocolate, finely chopped
scant 1/4 c hot almond milk, plus more if needed

In a bowl combine the chopped chocolate and hot milk, and whisk until thickened and all the chocolate is melted. Using a spoon spread chocolate over the tips of each cookie. Allow to cool and chocolate to harden. Serve and enjoy!



Notes: To make the pretzel flour, take stale (previously fresh-baked) soft pretzels, and grind them in a food processor until they resemble coarse crumbs.  Spread the crumbs out on a baking sheet and bake at 400 degrees F until they are extra crunchy. Return the crumbs to the food processor and pulverize until fine like a flour. Sift through a mesh sieve, returning any larger crumbs to the processor to grind a second time. Can use lye instead of baking soda + water, or bake the baking soda at 250F for 1 hr.
