Spiced Cacao Cookies
  --Asha Loupy
  
Cookies:
1 c ap flour
1/4 c cacao powder 
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1/4 tsp ground green ardamom
1/4 tsp freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 tsp ground cloves
4 oz (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 c granulated white sugar
1/4 c light brown sugar
1 tsp vanilla

In a medium bowl, combine the flour, cacao powder, salt, cinnamon, cardamom, nutmeg and cloves. Mix well and set aside. In a large bowl, combine the butter, white sugar and brown sugar. Using an electric mixer, cream the butter and sugar until light and fluffy, about 4–6 min. Add the vanilla and continue to beat for another 30 s. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a spatula and then add the dry ingredients, mixing on low until combined. Turn the dough out onto a large piece of plastic wrap. Fold the plastic wrap over the dough and form into a log ~2" in diameter and 6" long. Refrigerate for 2 hr to overnight. Preheat the oven to 325F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside. Remove the cookie dough from the fridge. Unwrap and using a sharp knife, slice into 1/2" thick rounds, turning the log slightly with each slice (this will help keep a round shape as you cut). Place the cookies ~1" apart on the baking sheet. Bake until cooked through, ~13–15 min. Remove the cookies from the oven and let cool on the tray for 5 min and then transfer them to a cooling rack and let sit until completely cooled.

Glaze:
1 c powdered confectioner’s sugar
2–3 1/2 tbps unsweetened coconut milk
1/2 c unsweetened shredded coconut, toasted

Mix the powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons of coconut milk in a small bowl. The glaze should be thick and pourable. If the glaze is too thick, add the remaining coconut milk a tsp at a time until you reach the desired consistency. 

To glaze the cookies, hold one cookie over the bowl of glaze and spoon the glaze over one half of the cookie, letting the excess glaze fall back in the bowl. Keep spooning the glaze over the cookie until there is an even layer of glaze on half of the cookie. Place back on the cooling rack and sprinkle a line of toasted coconut down center edge of the glaze. Repeat with the remaining cookies and then let sit until the glaze sets, ~1–2 hr.


