Strawberry Shortcake Cookies
  --Sofi | Broma Bakery

Topping:
3 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
1/3 c ap flour
2 tbsp light brown sugar
1 tbsp granulated sugar
pinch of salt

Combing the melted butter, flour, brown sugar, granulated sugar, and salt in a medium bowl and use a fork to stir together until the mixture clumps together. Set aside while you make the cookies.

Cookies:
1/2 c unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 c packed light brown sugar
1/4 c granulated sugar
1 large egg, at room temperature
2 tsp vanilla
1 2/3 cup ap flour
1/4 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
6 strawberries, washed, hulled and sliced
1/4 c strawberry preserves

Preheat the oven to 350F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Set aside. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat together the butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar on low speed until combined. Gradually increase the speed to medium-high and mix until light and fluffy, ~1 min. Use a silicone spatula to scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl, then add in the egg and vanilla. Beat on medium-high speed until the mixture is smooth and combined, ~1 min, scraping down the sides and bottom of the bowl as needed. Add the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt and beat on low until just combined and no streaks of flour remain, ~30 s. Remove the bowl from the stand mixer and use a silicone spatula to fold in the sliced strawberries. Last, drop big spoonfuls of the preserves into the dough and use a silicone spatula to fold the dough once or twice–you don’t want to over mix it! Use a 1 1/2 oz cookie scoop to scoop out balls of dough. Place on the prepared baking sheet, spacing the dough balls 2" apart. crumble ~1 tsp of the crumb topping onto each dough ball, gently pressing it into the cookie. Bake until the cookies have puffed up and are set and firm around the edges, but still somewhat soft in the middle, 12-15 min. Sometimes the jam can make the cookies spread on the edges–for perfectly round cookies use a large round cookie cutter to shape the cookies towards the end of their bake time. Remove the baking sheet from the oven and allow the cookies to rest on the baking sheet for 5 min, then use a metal spatula to transfer the cookies to a cooling rack to cool completely. Store in air-tight container in the fridge.


