Sugar Cookies with Royal Icing

Cookies
2 1/4 c ap flour + more for dusting
3/4 tsp kosher salt
1/4 tsp baking soda
3/4 c unsalted butter, softened
3/4 c granulated sugar
1 large egg
1 1/2 tsp vanilla
1/2 tsp almond extract

In a medium bowl, combine the flour, salt, baking soda, and baking powder. Set aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer, cream the butter and sugar on medium high speed until pale and fluffy, 4 min. Add the egg and mix until combined. Stir in the vanilla and almond extracts. Reduce the mixer speed to low and add the flour mixture until just combined. Wrap the dough tightly in plastic wrap, using the plastic to help shapre the dough into a disk. Refrigerate for a min of 30 min, up to 2 days, or freeze up to 1 month.
Preheat oven to 350F. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper and set aside. Lightly flour a kitchen surface, place the dough disk on top and lightly flour the dough. Using a rolling pin, gently pound the dough to a 1/2" thickness. Use a cookie cutter to punch out shapes and transfer them to the prepared baking sheet. Gather the scraps into a bowl and roll them out up to 2 times more, chilling if the dough becomes too sticky. Bake until the bottoms and edges of the cookies begin to turn golden brown, 7-10 min, then remove and transfer the cookies to a cooling rack. Wait until the cookies are completely cool to frost as desired.

Icing
4 c powdered sugar
2 large egg whites
1 tsp fresh lemon juice or cider vinegar
1-2 tsp water

In a large bowl, whisk the powdered sugar with the egg whites, lemon juice, and 1 tsp of water, adding more water as needed, until a thing and shiny glaze forms. Cover with plastic wrap, letting the wrap touch the icing, until ready to use. Makes ~ 2c.


The dough is forgiving, so you can reroll your scraps for maximum yield. We suggest up to twice for beauty cookies with add-ins (like colorful sprinkles) and up to three times for standard ones. The icing is lenient as well: If it's too thick, add water; too thin means you can stir in more powdered sugar.
