Vegan Gluten-Free Chocolate Chip Cookies
  --Brandi, The Vegan8

3/4 c (120g) brown rice flour
2 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp fine sea salt
3 tbsp (30g) coconut sugar
3/4 c (180g) semi-sweet dairy-free chocolate chips (plus extra to put on top if desired)
3/4 c (192g) super creamy roasted almond butter**
1/4 c + 2 tbsp (120g) pure maple syrup*
2 tsp (10g) vanilla extract
1 tbsp (20g) regular unsulphured molasses (not blackstrap, I used Grandma's molasses)
2 tbsp (30g) water

Preheat oven to 350°F (177°C) and line 2 sheet pans with parchment paper. Add the brown rice flour, baking powder, salt and coconut sugar to a large bowl and whisk very well to ensure there are no lumps. Stir in the chocolate chips. In a separate medium bowl, combine the almond butter, syrup, vanilla, molasses and water. Stir until completely smooth. Pour over the dry ingredients and stir for a couple of minutes until all the dough comes together and no more flour is visible. It should be very sticky and thick. Drop 2 tbsp worth of batter (or use a cookie scoop) onto the pan ~2" apart to allow room for them to spread. Place only 9 on a sheet so they don't get overcrowded. Now, depending on the thickness of your almond butter used (as some are really drippy) it will affect how stiff/soft your cookie scoops are. If your cookie scoops slowly spread out once dropped onto the pan, then you don't need to flatten them. If they hold their shape, take a small piece of parchment paper and press each cookie down to between 1/4-1/2" thick. Smooth and piece together the edges to a round shape. Place extra chocolate chips on top of each cookie, if desired. Bake 1 pan at a time for 10-11 min until the edges are turning golden brown. Mine were perfect at 11 min. Cool 10 min on the pan and then cool another 10 on a cooling rack. They will crisp and firm up as they cool. You must wait for them to cool at least 10 min or they can crumble because of the rice flour, but will be fine after cooled. Keep sealed so they don't dry out.


Notes: Can sub the maple syrup with agave if desired. Can sub sunbutter for nut-free, just make sure it's really smooth. 
