Vegan Sugar Cookies
  --Kroger

2 1⁄2 c ap flour
1⁄2 tsp baking powder
1⁄2 tsp kosher salt
1 tbsp egg replacer
2 tbsp water
2 sticks (4 oz. each) plant-based butter
3⁄4 c sugar
1 tsp vanilla extract
2 c confectioners sugar

In medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder and salt; set aside. In small bowl, whisk together egg replacer and water. Let stand until thickened. In large bowl with hand mixer or in bowl of stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment, beat butter and sugar on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, ~2 min, scraping sides of bowl as needed. Add egg replacer mixture and vanilla; beat on medium speed until combined, ~1 min, scraping sides of bowl as needed. Add half dry ingredients; beat on low speed until just combined, scraping sides of bowl as needed. Repeat with remaining dry ingredients. Wrap dough in plastic wrap, flatten into a disk and allow to chill until firm, at least 1 hr and up to overnight. When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone mats. Between 2 sheets of plastic wrap or parchment paper, gently roll out chilled dough until -inch thick. (If dough is cracking or crumbling as you roll, let it warm up for a few minutes and try again.) Use 2" round cookie cutter or similar round shape to punch out cookies. Place on prepared baking sheets ~1" apart. (Chill dough scraps until firm before rolling and cutting again.) Place baking sheets in freezer until cookies are very firm, ~10 min. Bake cookies 1 baking sheet at a time on center rack until edges turn golden brown, 12–14 min. Cool on baking sheet 5 min, then transfer to wire rack to cool completely. To make frosting, whisk together confectioners’ sugar and oatmilk until smooth. If icing is too thick, add additional oatmilk 1 tsp at a time until desired thickness is reached. For earth cookies, divide icing and dye blue and green. Spread thin coating of blue icing on each cookie, then let dry until no longer wet to touch. Top with green icing in shapes of land masses. Serve, refrigerating any leftovers in an airtight container up to 5 days.

