World Peace Cookies
  -Dorie's Cookies 
 
 
1 1/4 c (170g) ap flour
1/3 c (28g) unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1 stick + 3 tbsl (11 tbsp;5 1/2 oz; 155g) unsalted butter, cut into chunks, at room temp
2/3 c (134g) packed light brown sugar
1/4 c (50g) sugar
1/2 tsp fleur de sel or 1/4 tsp fine sea salt
1 tsp vanilla
5 oz (142g) best-quality bittersweet chocolate, chopped into irregular sized bits

Sift the flour, cocoa, and baking soda together. Working with a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat the butter and sugars together on medium sped until soft, creamy, and homogenous, ~3 min. Beat in the salt and vanilla. Turn off the mixer, add all the dry ingredients, and pulse a few times to start the blending. When the risk of flying flour has passed, turn the mixer to low and beat until the dough forms big, moist curds. Toss in chocolate pieces and mix to incorporate. This is an unpredictible dough, sometimes it's crumbly and sometimes it comes together and cleans the sides of the bowl. No matter what, the cookies are always great. Turn the dough out onto a work surface and gather it together, kneading it if necessary to bring it together. Divide the dough in half. Shape the dough into logs that are 1 1/2" in diameter. Don't worry about length, get the diameter right and the length will follow. If you get a hollow log, start over. Wrap the logs in plastic and freeze for min 2 hrs, or refrigerate for min 3 hrs. When you're ready to bake, center a rack in the oven and preheat to 325F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment or silicone baking mats. Working with one log at a time (keep other refrigerated) and using a long, sharp knife, slice the dough into 1/2" thick rounds. Arrange the rounds on the baking sheets, leaving ~2" between them. Bake for 12 min. They will not look done, nor will they be firm, that's just the way they should be. Transfer baking sheet to a cooling rack and let cookies rest until they are only just warm, at which point you can eat or let them reach room temp. Repeat for remaining log.

Notes:
This dough can be different from batch to batch — it always seems to turn out well no matter what, but the inconsistency can be frustrating. I’ve found that it’s best to mix the dough for as long as it takes to get big, moist curds that hold together when pressed and then knead if necessary so it comes together. When you’re rolling it into logs, keep checking that the logs are solid. Again, the dough can be capricious and it may not always roll into a compact log on the first (or second or third) try. Be patient.
The dough can be refrigerated for up to 3 days or frozen for up to 2 months. If you’ve frozen the dough, you needn’t defrost it before baking — just bake the cookies 1 min longer.
