Piyaju (Red Lentil and Onion Fritters)
  --Sohla El-Waylly
  
1 c red lentils (masoor dal)
2 tsp Diamond Crystal kosher salt, plus more to sprinkle
1 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp ground turmeric
2 medium red onions, sliced (not too thin)
3 Thai or serrano chilies, sliced (and/or 1 tsp Kashmiri red chili powder)
A large handful of fresh cilantro, stem and all, roughly chopped
Ghee or neutral oil, for frying

Rinse the lentils, then cover with cool tap water and set aside to soak at room temperature for at least 1 hr and up to 6 hr. (If they soak too long, the paste will blend too smoothly and the fritters won’t be as crunchy.) Drain the lentils. In a blender or food processor, blitz the lentils with salt, cumin, and turmeric, adding just enough water to get things moving. You want a thick, coarse paste that’s reluctant to flow off a spoon, so be prudent when adding water. Scrape the paste into a bowl. Add the onion, green chili, and cilantro, and mix well with your hands. Prepare yourself for frying: set a rack into a sheet tray and line it with paper towels. Have salt handy for final seasoning and a slotted spoon or spider for evacuation. Pour ~1" of ghee or oil into a small Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed pan. Heat over medium-high until a small amount of batter added to the fat excitedly sizzles and spurts. Working in batches, drop heaped tbsp of batter into the oil. (I like to do this with my hands, pinching and plopping dollops into the fat. If you don’t want to get that close to hot oil, use 2 spoons, dipping them into the oil before scooping to keep the batter from sticking. Don’t crowd the pan and turn the fritters occasionally. Fry until very deeply browned—darker than you’d think. They should look a little unruly and almost blackened at the edges. That is correct. Drain onto the prepared landing zone and season with salt while hot. Eat them as soon as you can without burning your mouth, which is to say, immediately.

Raitha:
1/2 c full-fat strained yogurt
1/4 c buttermilk
2 tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/2 tsp sugar
Salt and pepper to taste
2 tbsp neutral oil
1 tsp cracked coriander seeds
Pinch turmeric
1/4 tsp Kashmiri red chili powder

Stir together the yogurt, buttermilk, lemon juice, and sugar. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Scrape into a shallow serving dish. In the smallest pan you have, warm up the oil and coriander over medium heat until the seeds pop, ~3 min. Add the chili and turmeric, stir, then scrape over the yogurt mixture. Serve right away.


