Feta & Za'atar Pasta Salad
  --Sohla El-Waylly

1/2 medium red onion
8 oz mini Persian cucumbers (~3)
1/2 bunch parsley leaves and tender stems
kosher salt
freshly ground black pepper
4 garlic cloves
1/2 c olive oil
3 tbsp za’atar, plus more to serve
8 oz orecchiette
zest and juice of 1 lemon, plus more to taste
6 oz feta, crumbled

Chop the onion and place in a large bowl. Cover with cool water, swish, and drain thoroughly. Quarter the cucumbers lengthwise then cut crosswise into 1/2" pieces. Add to the bowl with the onion. Finely chop the parsley. Add to the bowl with the cucumbers.  Toss the onion, cucumber, and parsley together, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Peel and thinly slice the garlic; set aside. Bring a medium pot of water to a boil. Ccombine the oil and sliced garlic in a small saucepan or skillet. Heat over medium-low, stirring frequently, until the the garlic smells toasty and is barely blonde around the edges, 5 to 7 minutes. Remove from heat and continue cooking with the oil’s residual heat, stirring constantly, until light golden, 1-2 min. Use a slotted spoon to transfer the garlic to a plate and lightly sprinkle with salt. While the oil is still warm, stir in the za’atar; set aside. Once the water has come to a boil, season generously with kosher salt. Add the pasta and cook, stirring occasionally, until just tender (slightly more cooked than al dente, but not mushy). Drain through a colander and immediately rinse under cool water until chilled, running your hands through the pasta to ensure it’s fully cooled. Shake and toss very thoroughly to drain, then transfer to the large bowl with all the veggies. Add the za’atar/garlic oil (be sure to scrape in all the herbs and spices), lemon zest, lemon juice, feta, and garlic chips to the pasta, and toss everything together. Taste and add more salt, pepper, and/or lemon juice as needed. Chill for at least 1 hr before serving and up to 3 days. Garnish with extra za’atar before serving. 


Notes: can swap dill for the parsley; can use any short pasta
