Italian Grinder Pasta Salad
  --Food by Maria

Dressing:
2 tbsp pepperoncini brine
1/2 c mayo
1 tbsp evoo
1/4 tsp kosher salt
1/4 tsp ground pepper
1/2 tsp Worcestershire or shoyu
1 large garlic clove, grated
1/4 c fresh grated parmesan cheese
2 tbsp fresh squeezed lemon juice

To a small bowl or glass jar add the pepperoncini brine, mayo, evoo, kosher salt, pepper, worcestershire, garlic, parmesan cheese, and lemon juice. Whisk well to combine. Set aside in the fridge.

Pasta:
225 g 8oz / ½ lb DeLallo Orecchiette
2 tbsp pesto

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Cook the pasta to al dente, according to the package instructions and then drain well. After the pasta is well-drained, add the pasta to a mixing bowl and toss with pesto. Add the seasoned pasta to the air fryer and air fry at 390F for 10-15 min, tossing every few minutes, until golden brown and crispy. Set aside on a baking sheet in a single layer.

Salad:
3-4 slices prosciutto, cut into small pieces. crisped in the air fryer
1 c (~135 g) cubed mozzarella or provolone cheese, ½ inch cubes
3/4 c DeLallo Whole Mild Pepperoncini Peppers, stems removed and chopped into rounds (about 12 pepperoncini)
1 1/2 c cherry or grape tomatoes, halved
1/2 c cubed salami
1/2 c muffaletta spread (or olive salad)
1/2 c Sun-Dried Tomatoes, drained from their oil and chopped
1/2 c diced red onions
1/3 c fresh basil leaves, roughly torn
1 1/2 c shaved iceberg lettuce (or sub with same amount of thinly sliced romaine lettuce or shaved brussels sprouts)

To make the prosciutto crispy, air fry the small pieces of prosciutto at 450F for 2 min. Set aside. To a large bowl add the cheese, pepperoncini, tomatoes, salami, prosciutto, muffaletta spread, sundried tomatoes, and red onions. If serving right away, add the iceberg lettuce; if not, leave out and toss in the salad before serving. Drizzle the dressing all over the salad, toss to combine and garnish with the torn fresh basil leaves.


Notes: can sub jarred giardiniera for muffaletta spread
