Aloo Chaat
  --Maneet Chauhan & Jody Eddy

Green Chutney:
2 tbsp chana dal
1/2 tsp ground Jodhana Cumin
1/2 tsp sugar
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp Chaat Masala
pinch of hing
1 tbsp fresh lemon juice + more to taste
1/2 c tightly packed fresh mint leaves
1 c tightly packed cilantro leaves
3 garlic cloves
3 serrano chiles, seeded
3" knob fresh ginger, peeled with a spoon and coarsely chopped

Heat a cast-iron pan over high heat until nearly smoking. Add the dal and toast, swirling the pan the entire time, until it takes on a light golden brown color. Immediately transfer the dal to a bowl or onto a plate to prevent it from overtoasting. In a food processor, combine the toasted dal and the rest of the ingredients and blend until quite smooth(it will still be a little chunky). Add water, 1 tbsp at a time, to achieve a thick consistency that holds together on a spoon and is not runny. Taste and season with additional salt and lemon juice according to taste.

Tamarind Chutney:
1 tsp vegetable oil
1 tsp Cumin
1 tsp Coriander
1 tsp Fennel
1 tsp powdered Guntur Sannam Chillies
1 tbsp finely chopped fresh ginger
1/4 c golden raisins
1/4 c pitted dates, coarsely chopped
16 oz block seedless tamarind paste, coarsely chopped
1 tsp Madhur Jaggery or dark brown sugar
1 tsp Chaat Masala
1/2 tsp black salt (kala namak)
1/2 tsp ginger + more to taste
Kosher salt

In a sauté pan, heat the oil over medium heat until it glistens, about 2 minutes. Add the cumin, coriander, fennel, and chillies and sauté until aromatic, about 2 minutes. Add the fresh ginger, raisins, dates, tamarind, and jaggery, increase the heat to medium-high, and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the sauce is thick and coats the back of the spoon, ~10 min, stirring with a wooden spoon occasionally to prevent scorching and to encourage the flavors to mingle. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the chaat masala, black salt, and ground ginger. Transfer the chutney to a food processor or blender and blend on high speed until smooth. Taste and season with salt. The chutney will keep in a covered container in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.

Chaat:
3 tbsp ghee, store-bought or homemade
2 large russet potatoes, boiled whole, peeled while warm, and cut into 1/2” cubes
1/2 tsp powdered Kashmiri Chillies
1/2 tsp ground toasted Jodhana Cumin
1/2 tsp Chaat Masala + more to taste
1 small red onion, finely chopped
1/4 c whole-milk yogurt
Kosher salt
2 tbsp green chutney
2 tbsp tamarind chutney, store-bought or homemade
1/4 c sev (fried chickpea noodles), plus more if desired
Pomegranate arils, for serving
Cilantro leaves, for serving

In a sauté pan, heat the ghee over medium heat until hot but not smoking. Add the potatoes and fry until golden brown and just starting to crisp up, 6-8 min, turning frequently to ensure even coloring. Transfer the potatoes to a large bowl and add the chilli powder, cumin, chaat masala, and onion. Stir gently until the potatoes are evenly coated with the spices. In a small bowl, whisk together the yogurt, 1 teaspoon water, and salt to taste. Gently stir the green chutney and tamarind chutney into the potatoes, season with salt, and transfer to a serving platter. Sprinkle with sev, drizzle with seasoned yogurt, and garnish with pomegranate arils and cilantro. If desired, season with additional chaat masala and add more sev.

