Aloo Tikki Scotch Eggs   v
  --Asha Loupy

12 oz (3/4 lb) russet or Yukon gold potatoes, cut into large pieces (quartered for large potatoes, halved for smaller ones)
5 large eggs
1 small carrot, finely diced (about a little smaller than the size of a corn kernel)
1/4 c frozen corn
1/4 c frozen peas
1 1/2 tsp powdered Byadgi Chillies, Guntur Sannam Chillies or Kashmiri Chillies, depending on how spicy you want it
1 1/2 tsp whole Nagauri Cumin
1 tsp amchur powder
3/4 tsp Pragati Turmeric
1 tsp kosher salt
1 serrano chile, minced
1/4 c cilantro, tender leaves & stems, finely chopped
2 tbsp + 1/3 c cornstarch
1 1/4 c panko breadcrumbs
neutral oil, like canola or grapeseed, for frying

Place the potatoes in a large pot of cold, abundantly salted water (you want it to taste like the sea) and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to medium high and continue to cook at a gentle boil until the potatoes are easily pierced with a knife, ~15–20 min. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the cooked potatoes to a large bowl and set aside. Increase the heat to high and bring the water back to a boil. Gently lower in 4 eggs and cook 7 min for soft-boiled and 8–9 min for medium-to-hard-boiled. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the eggs to a bowl of ice water and allow to sit for 5 min. Peel the eggs and set aside. Bring the water back to a boil and add the carrots and cook for 1 min, then add the corn and peas and cook until the vegetables are tender-crisp, about another 2–3 min. Drain and set aside. When the potatoes are cool enough to handle, but still warm, remove the peels and compost or save for another use. Gently mash the potatoes with a fork or your hands until the potatoes have a smooth texture (it's okay if there are a few lumps, but you want it to be pretty smooth). Add the powdered chillies, cumin, amchur, turmeric, salt, serrano, cilantro, and cooked mixed vegetables, and mix well. Add the 2 tbsp cornstarch and mix until it is fully incorporated. Before assembling the scotch eggs, prepare your breading station: Place the remaining 1/3 c cornstarch in the first shallow bowl or plate; lightly beat the remaining 1 egg in a second shallow bowl or plate; place the panko bread crumbs in the last shallow bowl or plate. Divide the potato mixture into 4, equal portions. Take one peeled egg and roll it in the cornstarch, gently shaking off any excess. Take one of the potato portions and, using your fingers, form it into a disk and then start to press it into a cup form, ~1/2" thick. Place the cornstarch-coated egg in the center of the cup and then gently mold the potatoes so the egg is fully encased. Carefully roll the potato-encased egg between your palms to form a large oval. Place on a plate and repeat with the remaining 3 eggs. To bread the eggs, take one of the prepared eggs and roll it in the cornstarch, then the egg mixture and then coat it in the panko bread crumbs, pressing the bread crumbs to adhere to the outside of the scotch egg. Place the egg back on the plate and repeat the breading process with the remaining 3 eggs. To fry, heat 3" neutral oil to 375F in a large, high-rimmed pot or Dutch oven. Gently lower in 2 breaded eggs and fry until crisp and deep golden, flipping halfway through, ~2–3 min per side. Transfer to a wire rack-lined baking sheet or plate lined with paper towels to drain. Repeat the frying process with the remaining 2 eggs. To serve, slice in half and sprinkle the egg with a little extra powdered chillies and flaky sea salt. Enjoy warm or at room temperature with your favorite chutney, achaar or plain yogurt.




Notes: For gluten free: substitute the panko bread crumbs with gluten-free bread crumbs.For vegan, omit the soft-boiled egg and go for crispy mini tikki balls—form the potato mixture into balls the size of walnuts and use egg substitute (like Just Egg) when breading them.
