Aloo Gobi with Yogurt Sauce

Aloo Gobi
12 c water
1 tbsp salt + more to taste
1 1/2 lb head cauliflower, cored and cut into medium florets
1 lb fingerling potatoes, halved
1/2 lb brussel sprouts, roots trimmed and outer leaves removed
1 tsp ground tumeric
1/4 c pine nuts
3 tbsp vegetable oil
1 small yellow onion diced
5 garlic cloves peeled and finely chopped
2" piece fresh ginger peeled and minced
1 medium tomato diced
1 tsp garam masala
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp ground coriander
1/2 jalapeno, minced
1/4 c golden raisins
torn cilantro leaves for garnish
julienned carrot, ginger, and beets for garnish

Preheat oven to 400F. Line 2 baking sheets with aluminum foil and set aside. In a large pot, bring the water and 1 tbsp of salt to a boil. Add the cauliflower, potatoes, brussel sprouts, and tumeric. Cook until just tender, ~ 5min and drain. In a large skillet, toast the pine nuts over medium heat, stirring constantly, until light golden brown, 4-5 min Transfer to a small bowl and set aside. Return the skillet to medium high heat and add the oil. When the oil is hot, add the onion, garlic, and ginger. Season with salt. Cook until softened, 5 min. Add the tomato, garam masala, cumin, coriander, and jalapeno, and cook until fragrant and the tomato begins to break down, 3-5 min more. Remove from the heat and transfer to a large bowl. Add the cooked cauliflower mixture to the onion mixture, along with the reserved pine nuts and golden raisins. Toss to mix and season with salt. Divide the mixture evenly between the baking sheets and roast until slightly charred, 15 min.

Yogurt Sauce:
1/4 tsp whole cumin seeds
1 c yogurt
1/2 tsp sugar
1/2 tsp salt

In a small skillet, toast the cumin seeds over medium heat until fragrant, 1-2 min. Transfer to a mortar and pestle and lightly crush. In a small bowl, combine all ingredients. Makes 1 1/4 c of sauce.


Transfer the roasted vegetables to a large serving platter. Garnish with the cilantro leaves and julienned vegetables. Serve with the yogurt sauce.
