Cider Glazed Apple Bundt Cake
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
4 c apple cider
3 3/4 c (18 3/4 oz) ap flour
1 1/2 tsp salt
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
3/4 tsp cinnamon
1/4 tsp ground allspice
3/4 c (3 oz) confectioners' sugar
16 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
1 1/2 c (10 1/2 oz) packed dark brown sugar
3 large eggs
2 tsp vanilla
1 1/2 lbs granny smith apples, peeled, cored, and shredded.

Bring cider to boil in 12" skliled over high heat; cook until reduced to 1 c, 20-25 min. While cider is reducing, adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 350F. Grease and flour 12 c nonstick bundt pan. Whisk flour, salt, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, and allspice in large bowl until combined. Place confectioners' sugar in small bowl; add 2 tbsp reduced cider and whisk to form smooth icing. Cover with plastic wrap and set aside. Set aside 6 tbsp cider reduction. Pour remaining 1/2 c reduction into large bowl; add melted butter, brown sugar, eggs, and vanilla and whisk until smooth. Pour mixture over flour mixture and stir with rubber spatula until almost fully combined. Stir in apples and any accumulated juice until evenly distributed. Transfer mixture to prepared pan and smooth top. Bake until skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 55-65 min. Transfer pan to wire rack set in rimmed baking sheet. Brush exposed surface of cake lightly with 1 tbsp cider reduction. Let cake cool for 10 min. Invert onto wire rack and remove pan. Brush top and sides of cake with remaining 5 tbsp cider reduction. Let cake cool for 20 min. Stir icing, then drizzle evenly over cake. Let cake cool completely, at least 2 hr, before serving. Cooled cake can be loosely wrapped in plastic wrap and stored at room temp for up to 3 days.


Notes: For the sake of efficiency, begin boiling the cider before assembling the rest of the ingredients. Reducing the cider to exactly 1 c is important; if you accidentally overreduce it, make up the difference with water. Any apples can work, but tart works best.
