Brown Butter Apple Tart

Dough:
2 1/4 sticks butter at room temp + 1 tbps melted
1 c granulated sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt
1 large egg, lightly beaten
2 tbsp heavy cream
2 tsp vanilla
3 1/2 c ap flour + more for rolling

Use a pastry brush to evenly coat a 10" fluted tart pan with a removable bottom (or an 8x11" rectangular fluted tart pan with removable bottom) with the melted butter. Add the remaining butter, sugar, and kosher salt to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Cream the mixture until pale and creamy, using a rubber spatula to scrape the sides of the bowl as needed, ~ 2min. Stop the mixer and add the egg, heavy cream, and vanilla. Cream the mixture until smooth. Reduce the mixer to low and add the flour. Mix on low speed until the dough almost comes together. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surfaceand knead it until it comes together into a smooth round, 4-5 times. Divid the dough in half and flatten each into a 1" thick disc. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate for 2 hrs. Remove 1 piece of dough, unwrap and let sit for 10 min ad room temp. Lightly dust work surface and roll out into a 1/8" thick circle, about 12" in diameter. Loosely fold the dough in half and transfer to the buttered tart pan. Press the dough into the sides of the pan, pinch off the excess. Set the pan on a parchment lined rimmed baking sheet and refrigerate for 1 hr. Preheat the oven to 350. Remove the pan from the fridge and line the interior of the shell with a 12" piece of parchment paper or aluminum foil. Use weights or dried beans, then bake the shell until the dough doesn't have any wet spots on the surface, 22-28 min. Remove from the oven, cool for 5 min before removing paper & weights.

Filling:
4 large eggs
1 c granulated sugar
2 sticks butter
1 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise, split open, and seeds scraped from the pod
1/2 c ap flour
1/2 tsp kosher salt
3 semi-tart apples (ex granny smith, braeburn, pink lady) peeled, cored, and thinly sliced crosswise into 1/4" thick rings

In a medium bowl, whisk the eggs and sugar. Melt the butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Once medlted, add the scraped vanilla seeds and the pod. Continue to cook, swirling often, until the butter foam subsides and becomes deeply golden, ~5min. Remove from the heat and set aside for 10 min to cool, then remove the vanilla pod and slowly whisk into the egg-sugar mixture. Use a rubber spatula to get all of the vanilla seeds out of the pan. Whisk in the flour and salt until smooth. Add the apple rings to the tart shell, arranging in overlapping concentric circles. Slowly pour the filling over the apples. The filling is thick so give it time to seep down in the crevasses, adding enough to come 1/4" from the top of the crust. Place in the oven and back until the apples are deep golden brown and the filling is set in the center, ~1hr. Remove and set on cooling rack for 2 hrs before removing from the ring.
