Apple Carrot Cake   (vegan,gf?)
  -Minimalist Baker
  
Cake:
1 1/2 batches flax eggs (11/2 tbsp (11 g) flaxseed meal + 3 3/4 tbsp (56 ml) water)
1/4 olive oil (can sub applesauce)
1/3 c mashed very ripe banana
1/4 c maple syrup
1/2 c brown sugar
1/2 tsp sea salt
1/2 tsp cinnamon
1/2 c plain unsweetened almond milk (or other df milk)
1/2 c finely grated apple
1 heaping cup packed grated carrot
2/3 c gf rolled oats
1 1/2 tsp baking soda
1/2 c almond meal
1 heaping c gf ap flour
1/4 c walnuts chopped (optional, for topping)

Prep flax eggs, let stand for 5 min. Preheat oven to 375F (190C) and line a 8x8" baking dish. To flax eggs, add olive oil, mashed banana, and maple syrup and whisk to combine. Next add brown sugar, salt, and cinnamon and whisk to combine. Add almond milk and stir. Then add grated carrot and apple and stir. Add oats, baking soda, almond meal, and gf flour and stir to combine. You should have a thick but pourable batter - add more almond milk to thin if needed or more gf flour or almond meal to thicken. Pour into prepared baking dish and top with crushed walnuts. Bake for 40-45 min on center rack or until tester inserted into center comes out clean. When you press on the top, it shouldn’t feel too spongey, so don’t be afraid of over-baking! The GF blend just takes longer to bake than glutenous cakes. Remove from oven and let rest in the pan for 15 minutes. Then gently lift out of the pan and let cool completely on a wire baking rack or flat surface. The longer it cools, the more airy and light the cake becomes.

Frosting:
1 1/4 c raw cashews (soaked in very hot water for 30 min)
1 tbsp coconut oil (melted // optional - helps the frosting firm up when chilled)
1/4 c full-fat coconut milk (if avoiding coconut, sub almond or rice)
2 tbsp lemon juice
3 tbsp maple syrup + more to taste
1 tsp vanilla

Add  soaked, drained cashews, coconut oil, coconut milk, lemon, maple syrup, and vanilla extract to a high-speed blender and blending on high until creamy and smooth. Taste and adjust sweetness or tartness as needed by adding more maple syrup or lemon juice, respectively. Then refrigerate to firm. Wait to frost the cake until frosting has thickened ~2 hr, and the cake has cooled completely.
Store completely cooled leftovers loosely covered at room temperature up to 3 days, 5 days in the refrigerator (if frosted, it does need to be refrigerated), or in the freezer up to 1 month. Best when fresh.

Notes: can also add walnuts in the batter if you so desire
