Apple Pie Cinnamon Rolls

Filling:
1 stick unsalted butter
3 lbs granny smith apples, peeled, cored, and chopped into 1/4" pieces
1 c light brown sugar
1 tbsp cinnamon
1 tsp salt

In a medium Dutch oven, melt the butter over medium-high heat and cook until it just begins to brown, 2-3 min. Add the remaining filling ingredients and cook, stirring often, until the apples are caramelized and the liquid has reduced to a thick syrup, 25-28 min. Let cool completely.

Dough
1 c whole milk, heated to 115F
5 tbsp unsalted butter melted + more for greasing
2 1/4 (1 packet) dry instant yeast
3 tbsp sugar
1/2 tsp salt
4 3/4 c ap flour, divided + more for kneading and rolling
3 large eggs

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the milk and melted butter, and sprinkle the yeast on top (do not stir it in). Let it sit until it foams, 8-10 min, then using a wooden spoon, stir in the sugar and salt. Add half the flour and mix on low until just combined, ~30 s. Add the eggs and mix until completely incorporated, scraping down the sides as needed. Stir in the remaining 2 1/2 c flour, mixing until the dough comes together and forms a tacky ball, 3-4 min. Transfer the dough ball to a floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, 3-4 min, adding more flour as needed if the dough is wet. Wipe a large mixing bowl clean, then grease with butter. Add the dough ball, turning once to grease the surface of the dough. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the dough rise in a warm place until it doubles in size, ~1 hr. Grease a 9x13" pan with butter and set aside. When the dough is ready, roll it out onto a floured surface into a 12x18" rectangle that's 1/8" thick. Spread the filling over the dough, leaving a 1" border on all sides. Starting at one long end, roll the dough into a log. Pinch to seal the long seam and place the log onto lightly floured surface, seam side down. Using a large serrated knife, cut into 12 pieces, each ~2" thick, and place in the prepared pan, cut side up. Loosely cover with plastic wrap and let sit in a warm place for a second rise until puffy and slightly warm to the touch, 20-25 min. Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 375F. After the second rise, remove the plastic cover and bake until golden brown, 25-30 min.  

Glaze:
1/2 c confectioners' sugar
1/2 c honey
1 tbsp whole milk
1 tsp salt

In a small bowl, whisk all ingredients together until smooth.

Remove the rolls from the oven and drizzle the glaze over top. Let cool at least 15 min before serving.
