Apple Galette

Crust:
2 1/2 c ap flour + more for rolling
1 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp granulated sugar
1 c (2 sticks) unsalted butter, chilled and cut into 1/2" pieces
1/3-1/2 c ice water

In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, salt, and sugar. Cur the butter into the flour until it resembles a coarse meal. Add the ice water 1 tbsp at a time, and use a fork to pull the dough together until it's a shaggy, cumbly pile. Transfer the pile to a large piece of plastic wrap, and use the plastic to flatten and press the dough together into a 1" thick disk. Refrigerate until firm, at least 2 hrs, and up to 3 days; can be frozen ip to 1 month.

Apple Confit:
2 lbs sweet-tart apples (i.e. pink ladies) peeled, cored, and thinly sliced (6 medium apples)
1 c water
1/3 c granulated sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt
2 tsp fresh squeezed lemon juice

In a large saucepan, combine the apples, water, sugar, and salt, and bring to a simmer over medium high heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, until most of the liquid is reduced and a few apple slices are falling apart, 20 min. Stir in the lemon juice and set aside to cool. Makes 3 c and can be stored in the fridge for up to 3 days.

Apple Galette:
2 lbs sweet-tart apples (i.e. pink ladies) cored and very thinly sliced (6 medium apples)
1/3 c sugar
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1/4 tsp freshly grated nutmeg
pinch kosher salt
1 large egg, beaten with 1 tbsp water
2 tbsp turbinado sugar
2 tbsp unsalted butter

Preheat the oven to 350F. Toss the apples with the sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt. On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough to a 20" circle. Transfer to a parchment lined rimless baking sheetm with the dough falling over the edges, and spread the apple confit over the bottom, leaving a 4" border. Top the exposed confit with sliced apples and fold the edge of the dough up and over the filling, overlapping as necessary. Freeze until firm, at least 15 min. Brush the dough with the egg wash and sprinkly with turbinado sugar. Dot the exposed apples with butter and bake until the entire crust is deep golden brown and the apples are tender, 1hr-80min. Let cool slightly before serving.
