Mapo Tofu
  --Andrew Janjigian, America's Test Kitchen 

1 tablespoon Sichuan peppercorns
12 scallions
28 ounces soft tofu, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
2 cups chicken broth
9 garlic cloves, peeled
1 (3-inch) piece ginger, peeled and cut into 1/4-inch rounds
⅓ cup Asian broad-bean chili paste
1 tablespoon fermented black beans
6 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 tablespoon Sichuan chili powder
8 ounces 85 percent lean ground beef
2 tablespoons hoisin sauce
2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
2 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon cornstarch

Place peppercorns in small bowl and microwave until fragrant, 15-30 s. Let cool completely. Once cool, grind in spice grinder or mortar and pestle (you should have 1 1/2 tsp). Using side of chef’s knife, lightly crush white parts of scallions, then cut scallions into 1" pieces. Place tofu, broth, and scallions in large bowl and microwave, covered, until steaming, 5-7 min. Let stand while preparing remaining ingredients. Process garlic, ginger, chili paste, and black beans in food processor until coarse paste forms, 1-2 min, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Add 1/4 c vegetable oil, chili powder, and 1 tsp peppercorns and continue to process until smooth paste forms, 1-2 min longer. Transfer spice paste to bowl. Heat 1 tbsp vegetable oil and beef in large saucepan over medium heat; cook, breaking up meat with wooden spoon, until meat just begins to brown, 5-7 min. Transfer beef to bowl. Add remaining 1 tbsp vegetable oil and spice paste to now-empty saucepan and cook, stirring frequently, until paste darkens and oil begins to separate from paste, 2-3 min. Gently pour tofu with broth into saucepan, followed by hoisin, sesame oil, and beef. Cook, stirring gently and frequently, until dish comes to simmer, 2-3 min. Whisk water and cornstarch together in small bowl. Add cornstarch mixture to saucepan and continue to cook, stirring frequently, until thickened, 2-3 min longer. Transfer to serving dish, sprinkle with remaining peppercorns, and serve. (Mapo tofu can be refrigerated for up to 24 hr.) 


Notes: Ground pork can be used in place of beef, if desired. Asian broad bean chili paste (or sauce) is also known as doubanjiang or toban djan 

