Tortilla Soup
   --America's Test Kitchen

Tortilla strips:
8 corn tortillas (6") cut into 1/2" wide strips
1 tbsp vegetable oil
salt

Adjust oven rack to middle position; heat oven to 425F. Spread tortilla strips on rimmed baking sheet; drizzle with oil and toss until evenly coated. Bake until strips are deep golden brown and crisped, ~14, rotating pan and shaking strips (to redistribute) halfway through baking time. Season strips lightly with salt; transfer to plate lined with several layers paper towels.

Soup:
2 split bone in, skin on chicken breasts (~1 1/2lbs) or 4 bone in, skin on chicken thighs (~1 1/4lbs) skin removed and well trimmed of excess fat
8 c low sodium chicken broth
1 very large white onion (~1 lb) trimmed of root end, quartered, and peeled
4 medium cloves garlic, peeled
salt
2 sprigs epazote, fresh, or 8-10 sprigs fresh cilantro + 1 sprig fresh oregano
2 medium tomatoes, cored and quartered
1/2 medium jalapeño chile
1 chipotle chile en adobo + up to 1 tbsp adobo sauce
1 tbsp vegetable oil

Bring chicken, broth, 2 onion quarters, 2 garlic cloves, epazote, and 1/2 tsp salt to boil over medium high heat in large saucepan; reduce heat to low, cover and simmer until chicken is just cooked through, ~20 min. Using tongs, transfer chicken to large plate. Pour broth through fine-mesh strainer; discard solids in strainer. When cool enough to handle, shred chicken into bite-sized pieces; discard bones. Puree tomatoes, 2 remaining onion quarters, 2 remaining garlic cloves, jalapeño, chipotle chile, and 1 tsp adobo sauce in food processor until smooth. Heat oil in Dutch oven over high heat until shimmering; add tomato/onion puree and 1/8 tsp salt and cook, stirring frequently, until mixture has darkened in color, ~10 min. Stir strained broth into tomato mixture, bring to boil, then reduce heat to low and simmer to blend flavors, ~15 min. Taste soup; if desired, add up to 2 tsp additional adobo sauce. Add shredded chicken and simmer until heated through, ~5 min. 

Garnishes:
1 lime, cut into wedges
1 haas avocado, diced fine
fresh cilantro leaves
8 oz cotija cheese, crumbled, or monterey jack cheese, diced fine
minced jalapeño pepper
mexican crema or sour cream

To serve, place portions of tortilla strips in bottom of individual bowls and ladle soup into bowls; pass garnishes separately.
