Sweet Potato Pie
  --Cook's Country

9" single-crust pie dough
1 1/4 c packed (8 3/4 oz) light brown sugar
1 3/4 lb sweet potatoes, unpeeled
1/2 tsp salt
4 tbsp unsalted butter
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1/4 tsp ground nutmeg
1 c sour cream
3 large eggs + 2 large yolks
2 tbsp bourbon (optional)
1 tsp vanilla 

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 375 F. Roll dough into 12" circle on lightly floured counter. Loosely roll dough around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto 9" pie plate, letting excess dough hang over edge. Ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with your hand while pressing into plate bottom with your other hand. Trim overhang to 1/" beyond lip of pie plate. Tuck overhang under itself; folded edge should be flush with edge of pie plate. Crimp dough evenly around edge of pie using your fingers. Wrap dough-lined pie plate loosely in plastic and freeze until dough is firm, ~15 min. Line chilled pie shell with 2x12" squares of parchment paper, letting parchment lie over edges of dough, and fill with pie weights. Bake until lightly golden around edges, 18-25 min. Carefully remove parchment and weights, rotate crust, and continue to bake until center begins to look opaque and slightly drier, 3-6 min. Remove from oven. Let crust cool completely. Sprinkle 1/4 c sugar over bottom of crust; set aside. Reduce oven temperature to 350 F. Meanwhile, prick potatoes all over with fork. Microwave on large plate until potatoes are very soft and surface is slightly wet, 15-20 min, flipping every 5 min. Immediately slice potatoes in half to release steam. When cool enough to handle, scoop flesh into bowl of food processor. Add salt and remaining 1 c sugar and process until smooth, ~60 s, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Melt butter with cinnamon and nutmeg in microwave, 15-30 s; stir to combine. Add spiced butter; sour cream; eggs and yolks; bourbon, if using; and vanilla to potatoes and process until incorporated, ~10 s, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Pour potato mixture into prepared pie shell. Bake until filling is set around edges but center registers 165 F and jiggles slightly when pie is shaken, 35-40 min. Let pie cool completely on wire rack, ~2 hr. Serve.

