Weeknight Tagliatelle with Bolognese Sauce
  --America's Test Kitchen

1 lb 93% lean ground beef
2 tbsp water
1/4 tsp baking soda
salt and pepper
4 c beef broth
6 oz pancetta, chopped coarse
1 onion, chopped coarse
1 large carrot, peeled and chopped coarse
1 celery rib, chopped coarse
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp evoo
3 tbsp tomato paste
1 c dry red wine
1 oz parmesan cheese
1 lb tagliatelle

Toss beef with water, baking soda, and 1/4 tsp pepper in bowl until thoroughly combined. Set aside. Bring broth to boil over high heat in large pot (use same pot for cooking pasta) and cook until reduced to 2 c, ~15 min; set aside. Pulse pancetta in food processor until finely chopped, 15-20 pulses. Add onion, carrot, and celery and pulse until vegetables are finely chopped and mixture has paste-like consistency, 12-15 pulses, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Heat butter and oil in large dutch oven over medium high heat until shimmering. When foaming subsides, add pancetta mixture and 1/4 tsp pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until liquid has evaporated, ~8 min. Spread mixture in even layer in bottom of pot and continue to cook, stirring every couple of minutes, until very dark browned bits form on bottom of pot, 7-12 min. Stir in tomato paste and cook until paste is rust colored and bottom of pot is dark brown, 1-2 min. Reduce heat to medium, add beef, and cook, using wooden spoon to break meat into pieces no large than 1/4", until beef has just lost its raw pink color, 4-7 min. Stir in wint, scraping up fond, and bring to simmer. Cook until wine has evaporated and sauce has thickened, ~5 min. Stir in broth and parmesan. Return sauce to simmer; cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 30 min (sauce will look thin). Remove from heat and season with salt and pepper to taste. Rinse broth pot. While sauce is simmering, bring 4 quarts water to boil. Add pasta and 1 tbsp salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente. Reserve 1/4 c cooking water, then drain pasta. Add pasta to pot with sauce and toss to combine. Adjust sauce consistency with reserved pasta water as needed.
