Vegetarian Chili
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
salt
1 lb (2 1/2 c) dried beans, picked over and rinsed
2 dried ancho chiles
2 dried new mexican chiles
1/2 oz dried shiitake mushrooms, chopped coarse
4 tsp dried oregano
1/3 c walnuts, toasted
28 oz can diced tomatoes, drained with juice reserved
3 tbsp tomato paste
1-2 jalapeno chiles, stemmed and coarsely chopped
6 garlic cloves, minced
3 tbsp shoyu
1/4 c vegetable oil
2 lb onion, chopped fine
1 tbsp ground cumin
7 c water
2/3 c medium grind bulgur
1/4 c chopped fresh cilantro

Bring 4 qt water, 3 tbsp salt, and beans to boil in large dutch oven over high heat. Remove pot from heat, cover, and let stand for 1 hr. Drain beans and rinse well. Wipe pot out. Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat to 300F. Arrange anchos and new mexican chiles on rimmed baking sheet and toast until fragrant and puffed, ~8 min. Transfer to plate and let cool, ~5 min. Stem and seed chiles. Working in batches, grind chiles, mushrooms, and oregano in spice grinder or with mortar and pestle until finely ground. Process walnuts in food processor until finely ground, ~30 s. Transfer to bowl. Process drained tomatoes, tomato paste, jalapenos, garlic, and shoyu in food processor until tomatoes are finely chopped, ~45 s, scraping down bowl as needed. Heat oil in now empty dutch oven over medium high heat until shimmering. Add onions and 1 1/4 tsp salt; cook, stirring occasionally, until onions begin to brown, 8-10 min. Lower heat to medium and add ground chile mixture and cumin; cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, ~1 min. Add rinsed beans and water and bring to boil. Cover pot, transfer to oven, and cook for 4 min. Remove pot from oven. Stir in bulgur, walnuts, tomato mixture, and reserved tomato juice. Cover pot and return to oven. Cook until beans are fully tender, ~2 hr. Remove pot from oven, stir well, and let stand, uncovered, for 20 min. Stir in cilantro and serve. Chili can be made up 3 days in advance.


Notes: recommend a mix of at least 2 types of beans, one creamy (cannellini or navy) and one earthy (pinto, black, or red kidney). 
