Croissants
  --America's Test Kitchen

3 tbsp unsalted butter, very cold
24 tbsp european style butter, very cold (3 sticks)
1 3/4 c whole milk
4 tsp instant or rapid rise yeast
4 1/4 c (21 1/4 oz) ap flour
1/4 c (1 3/4 oz) sugar
2 tsp salt
1 large egg
1 tsp cold water

Melt 3 tbsp butter in medium saucepan over low heat. Remove from heat and immediately stir in milk (temp should be <90F). Whisk in yeast; transfer milk mixture to bowl of stand mixer. Add flour, sugar, and 2 tsp salt. Using dough hook, knead on low spead until cohesive dough forms,2-3 min. Increase speed to medium low and knead for 1 min. Remove bowl from mixer and cover with plastic wrap. Let dough rest at room temp 30 min. Transfer dough to parchment paper lined rimmed baking sheet and shape into 10x7" rectangle ~1" thick. Wrap tightly with plastic and refrigerate for 2 hrs. While dough chills,fold 24" length of parchment in half to create 12" rectangle. Fold over 3 open sides of rectangle to form 8" square with enclosed sides. Crease folds firmly. Place 24 tbsp butter directly on counter and beat with rolling pin for ~60 s until butter is just pliablebut not warm, then fold butter in on itself using bench scraper. Beat into rough 6" square. Unfold parchment envelope. Using bench scraper, transfer butter to center of parchment, refolding at creases to enclose. Turn packet over so that flaps are underneath and gently roll until butter fills parchment square, taking care to achieve even thickness. Refrigerate at least 45 min. Transfer dough to freezer. After 30 min, transfer to lightly floured surface and roll into 17x8" rectangle with long side parallel to edge. Unwrap butter and place in center of dough. Fold sides of dough over butter so they meet in the center. Press seam together with fingertips. With rolling pin, press firmly on each open end of packet. Roll out lengthwise again into 24x8" rectangle and fold into thirds. Place dough on sheet, wrap tightly with plastic, and return to freezer for 30 min. Transfer dough to lightly floured surface so that top flap opens on right. Roll out dough lengthwise into 24x8" rectangle and fold into thirds. Place dough on sheet, wrap tightly with plastic, and refrigerate for 2 hr or up to 24 hr. Transfer dough to freezer. After 30 min, transfer to lightly floured surface and roll into 18x16" rectangle with long side of rectangle parallel to edge. Fold upper half of dough over lower half. Using ruler, mark dough dough at 3" intervals along bottom edge with bench scraper, should be 5 marks. Move ruler to top edge of dough, measure in 1 1/2" from left, then use this mark to measure out 3" intervals, should have 6 marks. Starting at lower left corner, use sharp pizza whell or knife to cut dough from mark to mark. You will have 12 triangles and 5 diamonds; discard scraps. Unfold diamonds and cut into 10 triangles (making 22 equal size trianges in total). Position 1 triangle on surface, keep remaining covered with plastic. Cut 1/2" slit in center of short side. Grasp triangle by 2 corners on either slide of slit and stretch gentlyy, then stretch bottom point. Place triangle so point is facing you. Fold down both sides of slit. Roll top of triangle partway toward point. Gently grasp point with 1 hand and stretch again. Resume rolling, tucking point underneath. Curve ends gently toward each other to create cresent. Repeat with remaining triangles. Place 12 croissants on 2 parchment lined rimmed baking sheets at least 2 1/2" apart. Lightly wrap with plastic. Let stand at room temp until nearly doubled in size, 2 1/2-3 hrs. Shaped croissants can be refrigerated for up to 18 hr. Remove from refrigerator to rise and add at least 30 min to rising time. After croissants have been rising for 2 hr, adjust oven racks to upper middle and lower middle positions and heat oven to 425F. In small bowl, whisk egg, water, and pinch of salt. Brush croissants with egg wash. Place croissants in oven and reduce temp to 400F. Bake for 12 min, then switch and rotate baking sheets. Continue to bake until deep golden brown, 8-12 min. Transfer to wire rack and cool ~15 min. Serve warm or room temp.

After shaping, place 10 croissants 1" apart on parchment lined sheet. Wrap with plastic and freeze until solid, ~2 hrs. Transfer to zipper bag and freeze for up to 2 mon. Increase rising time by 1 hr, bake as above.
