Spiced Pumpkin Cheesecake
  --America's Test Kitchen

Crust:
5 oz graham crackers (9 whole crackers), broken into large pieces
3 tbsp granulated sugar
1/2 tsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
¼1/4tsp ground cloves
6 tbsp unsalted butter, melted

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 325 F. Spray bottom and sides of 9" springform pan evenly with nonstick cooking spray. Pulse crackers, sugar, and spices in food processor until evenly and finely ground, about fifteen 2 s pulses. Transfer crumbs to medium bowl, drizzle melted butter over, and mix with rubber spatula until evenly moistened. Turn crumbs into prepared springform pan and, using hand, spread crumbs into even layer. Using flat-bottomed ramekin or drinking glass, press crumbs evenly into pan bottom, then use a soup spoon to press and smooth crumbs into edges of pan. Bake until fragrant and browned about the edges, ~15 min. Cool on wire rack while making filling.

Filling:
1 1/3 c granulated sugar (9 1/3 oz)
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1/2 tsp ground ginger
1/4 tsp ground nutmeg
1/4 tsp ground cloves
1/4 tsp allspice
1/2 tsp table salt
15 oz can pumpkin
1 1/2 lb cream cheese, cut into 1" chunks and left to soften at room temperature, ~30 min
1 tbsp vanilla 
1 tbsp lemon juice from 1 lemon
5 large eggs, left at room temperature, ~30 min
1 c heavy cream

Bring ~4 qt water to simmer in stockpot. Whisk sugar, spices, and salt in small bowl; set aside. To dry pumpkin: Line baking sheet with triple layer of paper towels. Spread pumpkin on paper towels in roughly even layer. Cover pumpkin with second triple layer of paper towels and press firmly until paper towels are saturated. Peel back top layer of towels and discard. Grasp bottom towels and fold pumpkin in half; peel back towels. Repeat and flip pumpkin onto baking sheet; discard towel. In standing mixer fitted with flat beater, beat cream cheese at medium speed to break up and soften slightly, ~1 min. Scrape beater and bottom and sides of bowl well with rubber spatula. Add about one third of sugar mixture and beat at medium-low speed until combined, ~1 min; scrape bowl and add remaining sugar in two additions, scraping bowl after each addition. Add pumpkin, vanilla, and lemon juice and beat at medium speed until combined, ~45 s; scrape bowl. Add 3 eggs and beat at medium-low until incorporated, ~1 min; scrape bowl. Add remaining 2 eggs and beat at medium-low until incorporated, ~45 s; scrape bowl. Add heavy cream and beat at low speed until combined, ~45 s. Using rubber spatula, scrape bottom and sides of bowl and give final stir by hand. Set springform pan with cooled crust on 18" square doubled layer heavy-duty foil and wrap bottom and sides with foil; set wrapped springform pan in roasting pan. Pour filling into springform pan and smooth surface; set roasting pan in oven and pour enough boiling water to come about halfway up side of springform pan. Bake until center of cake is slightly wobbly when pan is shaken, and center of cake registers 145- 150 F on instant-read thermometer, ~1 1/2 hr (see note). Set roasting pan on wire rack and use paring knife to loosen cake from sides of pan. Cool until water is just warm, ~ 45 min. Remove springform pan from water bath, discard foil, and set on wire rack; continue to cool until barely warm, ~3 hr. Wrap with plastic wrap and refrigerate until chilled, at least 4 hr or up to 3 days.
Slide thin metal spatula between crust and pan bottom to loosen, then slide cake onto serving platter. Let cheesecake stand at room temperature ~30 min, then cut into wedges and serve.


Notes:Depending on the oven and the temperature of the ingredients, the cheesecake may bake ~15 min faster or slower than the instructions indicate; it is therefore best to check the cake 1 1/4 hr into baking. Although the cheesecake can be made up to 3 days in advance, the crust will begin to lose its crispness after only one day. To make slicing the cheesecake easy and neat, use a knife with a narrow blade, such as a carving knife; between cuts, dip the blade into a pitcher of hot water and wipe it clean with paper towels. The cheesecake is good on its own, but the Brown Sugar and Bourbon Cream (related recipe) is a grand addition.



