Spanish Migas with Fried Eggs
  --Cook's Illustrated

1/3 c water + extra as needed
1 tsp table salt, divided
1 tsp smoked paprika, divided
5x3/4" thick slices rustic, crusty bread (9 oz), bottom crust removed, cut into 1/2-3/4" cubes (5 c)
6 large eggs
1/4 c evoo
6 oz Spanish-style chorizo sausage, halved lengthwise and sliced 1/4" thick
2 slices thick-cut bacon, cut into 1/2" pieces
4 garlic cloves, smashed and peeled
2 Cubanelle peppers, stemmed, seeded, and cut into 1/2" pieces
1 red bell pepper, stemmed, seeded, and cut into 1/2" pieces
1/2 tsp sherry vinegar
1 tbsp minced fresh parsley, divided

Whisk water, 1/2 tsp salt, and 1/2 tsp paprika in large bowl until salt is dissolved. Add bread and knead gently with your hands until liquid is absorbed and half of bread has broken down into smaller pieces. If bread does not break down, add extra water, 1 tbsp at a time, and continue to knead until you have mix of bigger and smaller pieces interspersed with a few crumbs. Set aside. Crack 3 eggs into small bowl. Repeat with remaining 3 eggs and second small bowl. Set aside eggs. Heat oil, chorizo, bacon, and garlic in 12" nonstick or carbon-steel skillet over medium heat, stirring frequently, until bacon fat is rendered and bacon is just beginning to crisp at edges, 6-8 min. Using slotted spoon, transfer chorizo and bacon to medium bowl; discard garlic. Reserve 2 tbsp fat. Pour remaining fat over bread mixture and toss to combine. Add bread to now-empty skillet and cook over medium-high heat, stirring frequently, until smallest pieces are browned and crisp throughout and larger pieces are crisp on exterior and moist within, 12-15 minutes. Return bread mixture to now-empty bowl. Add 1 tbsp reserved fat, Cubanelle and bell peppers, remaining 1/2 tsp salt, and remaining 1/2 tsp paprika to now-empty skillet. Cook over high heat until peppers are softened and slightly blistered, 3-5 minutes. Return chorizo mixture to skillet with peppers and cook, stirring frequently, until heated through, ~30 s. Sprinkle with vinegar and 2 tsp parsley and toss to combine. Transfer to bowl with bread and toss to combine. Transfer to wide serving bowl. Heat remaining 1 tbsp reserved fat in now-empty skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Swirl to coat skillet. Working quickly, pour 1 bowl of eggs in 1 side of skillet and second bowl of eggs in other side. Cover and cook for 1 min. Remove skillet from heat and let sit, covered, for 15-45 s for runny yolks (white around edge of yolk will be barely opaque), 45-60 s for soft but set yolks, and ~2 min for medium-set yolks. Transfer eggs to top of migas, sprinkle with remaining 1 tsp parsley, and serve.


Notes: Fresh or stale bread can be used here. Buy fully cooked Spanish-style chorizo that is somewhat soft; if you can't find it, substitute linguica. Anaheim chiles can be used in place of the Cubanelles. 
