Avocado Miso Ramen

1/2 c mashed + 4 slices avocado (1 large)
1 tsp lemon juice + more to taste
3/4 c water
1/3 c unsweetened soy milk
2 tbsp white miso
kosher salt to taste
2 tsp canola oil
3 square slices firm tofu, blotted dry with a paper towel
2 tbsp cornstarch
1 1/2 tsp shoyu
4 thin orange bell pepper strips (1/4 bell pepper)
1 5oz package fresh or 3oz package dried ramen noodles
3 tomato slices
1 lemon wedge
pinch black pepper

Bring medium pot of water to a boil. In a small bowl, combine the mashed avocado with the lemon juice until smooth and set aside. In a small saucepan, combine the water, soy milk, and miso, and bring to a simmer, 3 min. Reduce the heat to low, stir in the mashed avocado and cook, whisking occasionally, until a creamy sauce forms, 2 min. Adjust the seasoning to taste with salt and lemon juice, and remove from the heat. Makes about 1 1/4 c sauce. In a small nonstick saute pan, heat the oil over medium high heat. Place the tofu slices in a shallow bowl and sprinkle with cornstarch, turning the tofu to coat. Add the tofu to the hot oil and cook until golden brown, occasionally shaking the pan to prevent sticking and turning the tofu to cok both sides, 2-3 min. Remove from the heat and add the shoyu, flipping the tofu once to brown both sides, and remove from the heat. Transfer to a small plate and set aside. Return the nonstick saute pan to medim high heat and add the bell pepper strips. Season with a pinch of salt and cook 1 min, flipping the strips once. Remove from the heat and add to the plate of tofu. Cook the ramen noodles in the boiling water according to package directions. While the ramen is cooking, reheat the avocado-miso broth and ladle into a bowl. Add the cooked ramen noodles to the broth and fold the noodles 2-3 times in the broth to coat. The sauce will thicken as the noodles are tossed. Garnish the ramen with the tofu, bell pepper, sliced avocado, tomato, and lemon wedges. Sprinkle with black pepper and serve.

notes: other toppings roasted sweet potato, sauteed kale, etc.
