Bolognese
  --Andy Baraghani

1 medium onion, chopped
1 celery stalk, chopped
1 small carrot, peeled and chopped
3 tbsp evoo
1 lb ground chuck (20%) patted dry
kosher salt
3 oz thinly sliced pancetta, finely chopped
1 c dry white wine
1/3 c tomato paste
1 bay leaf
pinch finely grated nutmeg
2 cup homemade chicken stock or low sodium chicken broth
1 c whole milk
1 lb fresh tagliatelle or pappardelle or dry rigatoni
2 oz finely grated parmesan (~1/2 c) + more for serving

Pulse onion, celery, and carrot in food processor until very finely chopped; transfer to small bowl. Heat oil in large pot over medium. Break beef into small clumps (~1 1/2") and add to pot; season lightly with salt. Cook, stirring occasionally but not breaking meat apar, until beef is lightly browned but not crisp, 6-8 min. Using slotted spoon, transfer to a medium bowl. Wipe out pot. Cook pancetta in same pot over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until pancetta has released some of its fat and is crisp, 6-8 min. Add onion mixture to pot and cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are very soft and beginning to stick, 6-8 min. Return beef to pot and pour in wine. Reduce heat to medium low and cook, smashing down on beef, beaking it apart, until wine is evaporated, surface of pot is almost dry, and meat is finely ground, 12-15 min. Add tomato paste, bay leaf, and nutmeg and cook, stirring occasionally, until tomato paste is slightly darkened, ~5 min. Pour stock and milk into pot; add a pinch of salt. Reduce heat to lowest setting and cook, uncovered and stirring occasionally, until meat is very, very tender, 2-2 1/2 hr. There shouldn't be any rapid bubbles at this stage. When finished, the suace should look and have the texture of sloppy joe mixture. If the liquid reduces before meat is completely tender, add an extra 1/2 c stock and continue cooking. Discard bay leaf. Taste sauce and adjust seasoning; keep warm. Cook pasta in large pot of salted boiling water, to al dente (times depend on type of pasta, 3 min for fresh, package instructions for dry minus 2 min). Using tongs, transfer pasta to pot with sauce. Add 1 c pasta liquid and 1/2 c parmesan. Increase heat to medium, bring to simmer, and cook, tossing constantly, until pasta is al dente and liquid is slightly thickened, ~2 min. Serve, garnishing with more parmesan. Sauce can be made 4 days ahead, cover and chill; can also be frozen. 

