Creamy Corn Chowder
  --Rick Martinez

8 ears of corn
2 parmesan rinds (~4 oz) optional
4 oz shiitake mushrooms, stems removed and reserved, caps cut into 1/4" pieces
2 sprigs thyme
1 bay leaf
kosher salt
5 tbsp unsalted butter, room temp, divided
freshly ground black pepper
1/4 c dry white wine
4 oz thick cut bacon, cut into 1/4" pieces
1 lb russet potatoes, peeled, cut into 1/2" pieces
3 shallots, thinly sliced
1 medium leek, white and pale green parts only, quartered lengthwise, thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves, finely grated
2 fresno chiles, seeded, finely chopped
2 tbsp ap flour
2 c heavy cream
1 tbsp chopped marjoram

Cut kernels from cobs and place in a large bowl. Place cobs in a medium pot and add parmesan rinds, if using, mushroom stems, thyme, bay leaf, 2 tsp salt, and 8 c water. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to medium low and simmer, stirring occasionally, until broth is fragrant and reduced by half, 40-50 min. Strain through a fine mesh sieve into a medium bowl; discard solids and set broth aside. Heat 4 tbsl butter in large heavy pot over medium high. Add corn kernels, season generously with salt and pepper, and cook, stirring occasionally, until corn is tender and juices have evaporated and browned on the bottom of the pot, 12-15 min. Reserve 1/2 c corn for serving; transfer remaining to a medium bowl. Add wine to pot and cook, scraping up fond, until liquid is syrupy, ~2 min. Scrape into bowl with corn. Heat remaining 1 tbsp butter in same pot over medium and cook bacon until golden brown and fat has rendered, ~6 min. Add potatoes, shallots, leek, garlic, and chopped mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables have softened but haven't taken on any color, 12-15 min. Add chiles and cook until fragrant and softened, ~3 min. Stir in flour and cook until nutty and fragrant, ~1 min. Add broth, bring to a boil, and cook, stirring occasionally, until potatoes are fork tender, 10-15 min. Add cream and corn mixture and cook, stirring, until chowder has thickened, 5-10 min. Remove from heat and stir in marjoram. Let sit 15 min before serving. Serve, topping with reserved corn, and chopped parsley if desired; season with pepper.
