Pecan Pie
  --Rick Martinez

Crust:
1 tbsp sugar
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
2 c ap flour + more for dusting
5 tbsp chilled, unsalted butter cut into pieces
3 tbsp chilled lard or vegetable shortening
1 tbsp apple cider vinegar
5 1/2 tbsp ice water

Pulse sugar, salt, and flour in food processor until combined. Add butter and lard and pulse until texture resembles coars meal with few pieces of butter and lard visible, ~15 1 s pulses. While it's running, drizzle in vinegar and ice water and pulse until dough is crumbly but just holds together when squeezed. Add 1 tsp water at a time if necessary, but don't overwork dough. Turn dough out onto work surface. Knead 1-2 times, pressing just to incorporate any shaggy pieces. Flatten to a 6" wide disk. Wrap with plastic and chill at least 1 hr. Preheat oven to 425F. Roll out dough on a lightly floured work surface to a 14" round. Transfer to 9" pie tin, letting excess hang over dish. Trim, leaving ~1" overhang. Fold overhang under, pinch and crimp. Chill 30 min. Line dough with parchment or foil, leaving some overhang. Fill with pie weights or dried beans. Bake until crust is dry around the edges and just beginning to lightly brown, 25-35 min. Carefully remove parchment and weights and reduce oven temp to 350F. Bake until crust is set and beginning to brown in the center, 10-15 min. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool. Dough can be made 3 days ahead; keep chilled or freeze up to 2 months. Crust can be baked 1 day ahead; tightly wrap and store at room temp.

Filling:
2 c pecan halves
4 large eggs, room temp, beaten to blend
1 c light corn syrup
2/3 c packed light brown sugar
1 tbsp robust flavored (dark) molasses (not blackstrap)
1 tbsp vanilla
1 tsp kosher salt
6 tbsp unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled

Preheat oven to 350F. Toast pecans on rimmed baking sheet until browned and fragrant, 8-10 min. Let cool. Reduce oven to 325F. Whisk eggs, corn syrup, sugar, molasses, vanilla, and salt in large bowl until smooth. Slowly whisk in butter until combined. Fold in pecans and pour into cooled crust. Bake pie until edges are set and slightly puffed but center is recessed and wobbles like Jell-O, 55-70 min, it will continue to set after baking. Transfer to wire rack and let cool at least 3 hrs before slicing. Pie can be baked 1 day ahead; tightly wrap and chill.
