Strawberry Shortcake
  --Molly Baz
  
2 c ap flour + more for surface
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp baking soda
1/2 c + 1 tsp sugar, divided
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt +
1 lemon
1/2 c (1 stick) cold unsalted butter
1 c sour cream, divided
2 c heavy cream, divided
1 1/2 lb strawberries
1 tsp vanilla

Place rack in center of oven; preheat to 400F. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, 4 tsp sugar, and salt in a large bowl to combine. Finely grate zest of half of lemon right into bowl. Cut butter into 1/2" pieces and toss with dry ingredients until coated. Work butter into dry ingredients until there are lots of flat shards and pea sized bits remaining. Combine 3/4 c sour cream and 1/3 c heavy cream in a medium bowl. Create well in flour mixture. Scrape cream mixture into well. Working in circles from inside well outwards with rubber spatula, mix dough until large, shaggy clumps form. Knead once or twice until it forms a mass and most of the flour has been incorporated. Transfer to lightly floured surface. Pat to a 1" thick square ~6x6". Cut dough into 4 equal sqares, then stack them all on top of each other. Press down on stack with your hands, flattening dough back to a square. Pat to a 7 1/2x5" rectangle ~1" thick. Cut rectangle in half lengthwise, then cut each side into 3 squares. Transfer to prepared baking sheet and sprinkle tops with 1 tbsp sugar. Freeze 10 min. Bake until golden brown all over, 20-25 min. Trim and discard stems of strawberries. Cut smaller ones in half and larger into quarters. Transfer to medium bowl. Using lemon from before, squeeze 2 tbsp juice into bowl with strawberries; add 3 tbsp sugar and toss to combine. Let sit at room temp, tossing occasionally. Pour remaining cream into chilled bowl. Add vanilla, 3 tbsp sugar, and pinch of salt. Vigorously whisk until soft peaks form. Whisk in remaining 1/4 c sour cream until just incorporated. Let shortcakes cool at least 15 min. To serve, gently split in half into dishes, dividing up strawberries and cream.
