Pumpkin Spice Babka

Dough:
1 c whole milk, warmed to 115F
2 1/4 tsp active dry yeast
1/4 c + 1 tsp granulated sugar, divided
5 1/4 c flour + more for dusting
1 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp cinnamon
1/4 c light brown sugar
4 eggs, divided
1 stick unsalted butter, cubed and softened + more for greasing

In a large bowl, combine the milk, yeast, and 1 tsp sugar. Let it sit until it begins to foam, ~10 min. Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, whisk the flour, salt, and cinnamon, and set aside. To the foamy yeast mixture, add the remaining sugar, brown sugar, and 3 eggs, and whisk to combine. Slowly stir in the flour until a dough forms, then transfer to a lightly floured surface. Using your hands, knead in the softened butter, a little at a time, until a smooth dough forms. Place in a greased bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Let rise in a warm place until doubled in size, ~1hr.

Filling:
15oz can pumpkin puree
1/2 c brown sugar
2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp cinnamon
1/2 tsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp ground allspice
1/2 tsp ground cloves
1/2 tsp ground nutmeg

In a medium bowl, stir all the ingredients together until incorporated.

Preheat ove to 350F and grease 2 9x5" loaf pans. Divide the dough into 2 balls. On a lightly floured surface, roll 1 ball of dough out into a 14" square, ~1/8" thick. Spread half the filling evenly over the surface of the dough, leaving a 1" margin at the top of the square. Starting with the edge closest to you, roll the dough up tightly. Leaving 1/2" of dough connected, cut the roll lengthwise in two. Twist the strands together and pinch at the end to seal. Carefully place the babka in one of the prepared pans. Repeat this process with the remaining dough and filling. Cover both babkas loosely with plastic wrap and place in a wamr area until the dough expands to fill the pan, 45 min more. In a small bowl, beat the remaining egg and liberally brush onto each babka. Bake, rotating halfway through, until golden and cooked through, 40-45 min. Let cool slightly, then remove from the pan and let cool before slicing and serving.
