Baklava Scones 
  --Jeff Feasts and Feats
  
3 oz pistachios shelled and roasted, ~2/3 c
3 oz walnuts roasted, ~2/3 c
3 oz almonds roasted, ~2/3 c
4 oz fig jam about 1/4 c (optional)
2 oz honey ~3 tbsp
11 oz AP flour ~2 heaping c
2 oz sugar ~1/4 c
3/4 tsp salt
3/4 oz baking powder ~1 tbsp
4 oz cold butter cut into 1/2" pieces
2 large eggs
1 tsp vanilla 
1 tsp rose water optional, or use 2 tsp vanilla 
4 oz + 2 oz heavy cream divided

Preheat oven to 425F. If the nuts are not yet toasted, put them all together on a parchment lined sheet pan and place in the center of the oven for 7-8 min while the oven heats up. Remove from oven and set aside. Place the nuts into the bowl of a food processor along with the fig jam (if using), honey and a pinch of salt. Pulse until the nuts are broken up into small pieces. Reserve. Alternatively, you can chop the nuts on a cutting board and stir together in a separate bowl with the fig jam (if using) and honey. Combine the flour, sugar, salt and baking powder in a large bowl. Stir to combine. Add butter to bowl and using your fingertips or a pastry cutter work the butter into the flour mixture until it is crumbly. It's ok if there are some larger bits of butter but try to get most of it broken up. Do your best to work quickly so as not to warm up the butter. Add all but 1/4 c of the chopped nut mixture to the bowl. Stir together. Combine eggs, vanilla, rose water (if using) and 4 oz of heavy cream in a separate bowl or measuring cup. Whisk gently to break up the eggs. Add the liquid ingredients to the dry ingredients and work together, either with your hands or with a wood spoon or rubber spatula. Work the dough just until it all comes together, be careful not to overwork it or the scones will be tough. Gently form the dough into a mound in the bowl and then scrape the dough out, in one piece, onto a floured parchment lined sheet pan. Press the dough down into a large circle, ~1" thick. Using a sharp knife slice the dough into 8 wedges by first slicing it in half, then quarters, then slicing each quarter in half. You can also cut out rounds or make any other shape you desire. Separate the wedges so that there is ~1/2" of space between them. Brush each scone with the remaining heavy cream. Bake the scones for 20-24 min, undisturbed, if you've cut them into large wedges.  When finished, remove pan from oven and allow scones to cool on pan for 5 min.

Drizzle:
3 oz honey ~1/4 c
2 oz sugar ~1/4 c
1 tbsp lemon juice
1/2 tsp kosher salt

Add the honey, sugar, lemon juice and salt for the drizzle into a small saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium-low heat, stirring until the sugar has dissolved. Turn heat to low and allow to simmer for 3-4 min, then turn off heat and leave on stove to keep warm until ready to use.  Sprinkle the reserved nut mixture over each scone and drizzle with the honey mixture. Serve warm.
