Banana Scones
  --ROSIE MACKEAN
  
300g self raising flour + extra for dusting.
100g unsalted butter, diced into 2cm chunks
2 ripe, medium-sized bananas, broken into 5 pieces
100ml buttermilk
70g caster sugar
1/2 tsp baking powder
pinch ground cloves
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
1 egg, beaten
1 - 2 tbsps demerara sugar

Put your diced butter in the freezer for 15 min while you weigh everything else up and line a large baking tray with baking paper. Mix the flour, sugar, baking powder and spices in a large bowl. Take the butter out of the freezer and add it to the bowl along with the banana chunks. Use your hands to squish the banana and butter chunks into the flower. You are not looking for breadcrumbs here - you just want to rub the butter into the flour so it is in smaller but still visible shards and you want the banana to break down into smaller pieces too. I do this in the flour so that it doesn’t disintegrate completely and become liquid as a banana tends to do when mashed. Add in the buttermilk and stir it in using a butter knife until a very rough shaggy mix is formed. Lightly flour a clean surface and tip the mix onto it - it will still have lots of dry floury bits but don’t worry! Use your hands to bring it together into a rough rectangle shape, then use a dough scraper to fold one half of the rectangle over onto the other. It will be messy but don’t worry - that’s the point. Press it into a rectangle and fold again. Repeat this 2 more times after that and you will find you have a much more cohesive, if slightly sticky dough. Shape it into a rectangle that is roughly 26cm by 15 cm and then divide it into 6 rough squares. Use your scraper or a large spatula to place the scones onto your baking tray, then transfer it to the fridge to chill for 30 min minimum. Clean up and preheat the oven to 200 fan. When your scones have chilled, remove them from the fridge and brush their tops with the beaten egg, then sprinkle over the demerara sugar. Bake in the hot oven for 15-18 min (allow for a minute or two extra if they have been in the fridge for longer than 1 hr) until golden and puffed. Leave to cool for 5 min on a tray before moving to a cooling rack. 


Notes: The scone dough can be made, cut and chilled for up to 2 hr before cooking. 
