Banana Pudding Sundae inspired by Blizzard

Ice Cream:
¾ c + 2 tbsp granulated sugar
3 vanilla beans, seeds scraped
2 c heavy cream
2 c whole milk
9 egg yolks
¾ tsp salt
3 ripe bananas, puréed until smooth

In a small bowl, combine the sugar with the vanilla pods and seeds. Using your fingers, rub the pods into the sugar until black specks are completely mixed in. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the pods, half of the sugar, the cream and milk to a boil, stirring often. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, whisk the remaining sugar with the egg yolks until pale yellow and thick. Once the cream mixture is boiling, slowly stream it into the egg mixture, whisking constantly until fully incorporated. Add the salt and banana purée, stirring to combine. Chill over an ice bath until cool, then cover with plastic and refrigerate overnight. 
The next day, Strain the ice cream base, discarding the pods. Churn the ice cream according to your ice cream maker's directions. Transfer to a shallow, sealable container and freeze until set, 4-6 hrs. Makes 6 c.

Graham Crackers:
1 c ap flour
¼ c whole wheat flour
½ tsp salt
¼ tsp baking soda
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
2 tbsp dark brown sugar
2 tbsp granulated sugar
2 tbsp honey
¼ tsp cinnamon

Preheat the oven to 350F. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flours with the salt and baking soda. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter with the sugars, honey and cinnamon until light and fluffy. Add the flour mixture and mix until a smooth dough forms. Place the dough between two sheets of parchment and roll out until ¼" thick, then chill in the refrigerator for 30 min. Transfer the dough to a sheet pan and remove the top piece of parchment. Bake until golden brown, 10-12 min, then let cool completely. Once cool, break into small pieces and store in an airtight container. Makes 4 c.

Toffee:
1 c granulated sugar
¼ c water
½ tsp kosher salt
2 sticks unsalted butter

Line a sheet pan with a silicone baking mat or parchment paper. In a medium saucepan, combine all of the toffee ingredients over medium-high heat. Cook until the mixture begins to caramelize, 8-10 min. As soon as it starts to caramelize, stir constantly until dark amber in color, 2-3 min.Pour onto the prepared sheet pan and use an offset spatula to spread to ¼" in thickness. Let cool completely, then break into small pieces and store in an airtight container. Makes 3 c.

Fudge Sauce:
¾ c water
1 stick butter
⅓ c cocoa powder
¼ c chopped bittersweet chocolate
¼ c sugar
2 tbsp corn syrup
1 tsp vanilla extract
¼ tsp kosher salt

In a medium saucepan, combine the water and butter over medium heat. Once the butter has melted, add the cocoa powder, chocolate, sugar and corn syrup. Bring to a boil, whisking constantly, then remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla and salt. Let cool completely, then keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Makes 2 c.

Assembly:
1 c banana-vanilla bean ice cream
¼ c graham cracker pieces
¼ c toffee pieces
½ ripe banana, roughly chopped
2 tbsp fudge sauce

In a medium bowl, add all of the ingredients except for the hot fudge. Stir until well incorporated, then fold in the hot fudge gently. Transfer to a jar or small bowl and serve.
