Barley "Tofu" with Garlicky Chili Oil
  --Jenny Dorsey

Barley "tofu":
3/4 c (100 g) barley flour
1 3/4 c (375 g). water
1 tap kosher salt
Neutral oil, for frying

Whisk together barley flour, water, and salt until smooth in a medium pot. Heat mixture over medium heat, whisking continuously for at least 10 min, until it thickens considerably and the raw flour taste is gone. Quickly transfer barley mixture to a small nonstick loaf pan or brownie pan, and place plastic wrap directly on top of the mixture. Place a flat, heavy item directly on top of the plastic wrap to flatten the mixture until it’s smooth at top. Ideally, the mixture has now been pressed into a rectangular shape that meets the edges of the pan you are using. Let rest 4 hr or more before unmolding and slicing. Remove barley tofu from pan, and slice into rectangles or squares of your choosing. Heat oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat until slick and shiny. Add barley tofu and pan fry on all sides until golden brown. Drain on paper towels, and serve with sauce(s) or garnish of your choice.


Chili oil
8 dried red chili peppers
1 tbsp whole red Sichuan peppercorns
2 tsp whole white peppercorns
2" knob of ginger, peeled and minced
3 stalks scallion, stemmed and minced
5 cloves garlic, peeled and minced
1 c neutral oil
kosher salt, to taste
white sugar, to taste
white vinegar, to taste
fish sauce, to taste (optional)

Preheat oven to 400F. Toast chiles on a sheet tray, 1-2 min, until darkened but not black. Remove and let cool completely. Pulverize into powder with a spice grinder. Dry toast Sichuan peppercorn and white pepper in a small skillet over medium heat until lightly fragrant, ~2-3 min. Let cool completely, and grind coarsely with a spice grinder. Combine chilies with spices, ginger, scallion, garlic in a heat-proof container. Heat oil in a small pot over medium heat until it reaches 300F. Carefully pour oil over chili mixture. It will bubble and steam immensely. Stir to combine, and let cool completely. Season with salt, sugar, vinegar, and fish sauce (if using) to taste. Let chili oil infuse in refrigerator overnight before serving.
