Thai-style Chicken with Basil
  --Cook's Illustrated

2 c fresh basil leaves, tightly packed
3 medium garlic cloves, peeled
6 green or red Thai chiles, stemmed (see note)
2 tbsp fish sauce, plus extra for serving (see note)
1 tbsp oyster sauce
1 tsp white vinegar, plus extra for serving (see note)
1 tbsp sugar, plus extra for serving (see note)
1 1/2 lb boneless, skinless chicken breast, cut into 2-inch pieces
3 medium shallots, peeled and thinly sliced (3`/4 c)
2 tbsp vegetable oil
red pepper flakes, for serving (see note)

Process 1 c basil leaves, garlic, and chiles in food processor until finely chopped, 6-10 1 s pulses, scraping down bowl with rubber spatula once during processing. Transfer 1 tbsp basil mixture to small bowl and stir in 1 tbsp fish sauce, oyster sauce, vinegar, and sugar; set aside. Transfer remaining basil mixture to 12" heavy-bottomed nonstick skillet. Do not wash food processor bowl. Pulse chicken and 1 tbsp fish sauce in food processor until meat is chopped into ~1/4" pieces, 6-8 1 s pulses. Transfer to medium bowl and refrigerate 15 min. Stir shallots and oil into basil mixture in skillet. Heat over medium-low heat (mixture should start to sizzle after ~11/2 min; if it doesn’t, adjust heat accordingly), stirring constantly, until garlic and shallots are golden brown, 5-8 min. Add chicken, increase heat to medium, and cook, stirring and breaking up chicken with potato masher or rubber spatula, until only traces of pink remain, 2-4 min. Add reserved basil-fish sauce mixture and continue to cook, stirring constantly until chicken is no longer pink, ~1 min. Stir in remaining cup basil leaves and cook, stirring constantly, until basil is wilted, 30-60 s. Serve immediately, passing extra fish sauce, sugar, red pepper flakes, and vinegar separately.


Notes: For a very mild version of the dish, remove the seeds and ribs from the chiles. If fresh Thai chiles are unavailable, substitute two serranos or one medium jalapeño. In Thailand, crushed red pepper and sugar are passed at the table, along with extra fish sauce and white vinegar, so the dish can be adjusted to suit individual taste. Serve with steamed rice and vegetables, if desired.
