Beef Empanada (Argentinian)
  --Gaby Melian

3 tbsp evoo
2 lb ground beef (20% fat)
2 medium onions, chopped
2 small red bell peppers, seeded, chopped
kosher salt, freshly ground pepper
3 tbsp ground cumin
2 tbsp sweet paprika
1 tbsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp cayenne
1 1/2 c low sodium chicken stock
2 tsp sugar
1/2 c raisins
3 packages (12 each) puff patry dough for turnovers (preferably Goya)
1/2 c pitted green olives (picholine or spanish), rinsed and cut in half

Heat 2 tbsp oil in large pot over high heat. Cook beef, breaking up, until browned but not completely cooked through, 6-8 min. Transfer to medium bowl with a slotted spoon, leaving as much fat in pan as possible. Reduce heat to medium and cook onion, bell pepper, and remaining oil, stirring until tender but not browned, 6-8 min; season with salt and pepper. Add cumin, paprika, oregano, and cayenne and cook, stirring, until fragrant, ~1 min. Add stock and reserved beef along with any accumulated juices to pot. Stir in sugar, 4 tsp salt, and 1/4 tsp black pepper. Bring to a simmer and cook, stirring and scaping up any fond, until most of the liquid is evaporated, 15-20 min; taste and season as needed. Stir in raisins. Transfer to medium bowl, cover, and chill at least 3 hrs. Heat ove to 375F. Let dough sit at room temp 15 min to temper. Remove 6 rounds from package, keeping plastic divider underneath, and arrange on a work surface. Plate 2 tbsp filling in center of each round, top with 2 olive halves. Brush water around half of outer edge of each round. Using plastic divider to help fold round over filling and pinch edges to seal. Using a fork, crimp edges. Remove plastic and transfer to a parchment lines sheet tray, spacing 1" apart. Repeate with remaining rounds, ~12 fit per tray). Bake, rotating halfway through, until golden brown and slightly darker around edges, 25-35 min. Filling can be made 3 days ahead. Unbaked empanadas can be made 3 months ahead; freeze on sheet tray, then transfer to freezer bags and kept frozen.
