Stir Fry Beef with Gai Lan
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
8 oz center-cut filet mignon, trimmed
1 lb gai lan, stalks trimmed
5 tsp Shaoxing wine or dry sherry, divided
1 tbsp shoyu, divided
2 tsp cornstarch, divided
3/4 c chicken broth, divided
2 tbsp oyster sauce
1 1/2 tsp toasted sesame oil, divided
2 tbsp vegetable oil, divided
1 1/2 tsp grated fresh ginger
3/4 tsp minced garlic, divided

Cut beef into 4 equal wedges. Transfer to plate and freeze until very firm, 20-25 min. While beef freezes, prepare gai lan. Remove leaves, small stems, and florets from stalks; slice leaves crosswise into 1 1/2" strips (any florets and stems can go into pile with leaves); and cut stalks on bias into 1/4" thick pieces. Set aside. When beef is firm, stand 1 piece on its side and slice against grain 1/4"  thick. Repeat with remaining pieces. Transfer to bowl. Add 1 tsp Shaoxing wine, 1 tsp shoyu, and 1 tsp cornstarch and toss until beef is evenly coated. Set aside. In second bowl, whisk together 1/2 c broth, oyster sauce, 1/2 tsp sesame oil, remaining 4 tsp Shaoxing wine, remaining 2 tsp shoyu, and remaining 1 tsp cornstarch; set aside. In third bowl, combine 4 tsp vegetable oil, ginger, and 1/4 tsp garlic. Heat 1 tsp vegetable oil in wok over high heat until just smoking. Add stalks and cook, stirring slowly but constantly, until spotty brown and crisp-tender, 3-4 min. Transfer to bowl. Add remaining 1 tsp sesame oil, remaining 1 tsp vegetable oil, and remaining 1/2 tsp garlic to wok and cook, stirring constantly, until garlic is fragrant, ~15 s. Add leaves and cook, stirring frequently, until vibrant green, ~1 min. Add remaining 1/4 c broth and cook, stirring constantly, until broth evaporates, 2-3 min. Spread evenly on serving dish. Add ginger-garlic mixture to wok and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, ~30 s. Add beef and cook, stirring slowly but constantly, until no longer pink, ~2 min. Return stalks to wok and add oyster sauce mixture. Cook, stirring constantly, until sauce thickens, 30-60 s. Place mixture on top of leaves. Serve.


Notes: If gai lan is unavailable, you can use broccolini, substituting the florets for the gai lan leaves. Do not use standard broccoli.

