Beef and Guiness Handpies
 - Rachael aka Spache the Spatula

2 tbsp olive oil
2 lbs ground beef
1 large red onion, chopped
3 small carrots, chopped (about 1 cup)
kosher salt
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 tbsp tomato paste
1 tbsp green peppercorn in brine, drained and roughly chopped
1 c beef broth
1 c Guinness Irish stout
1 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
a few sprigs fresh thyme
1 tbsp cornstarch
1 tbsp water
2 packages store-bought pie crusts (these are 14.1 ounces) or puff pastry (these are about 1 lb)
1 large egg
2 tbsp water

Preheat oven to 350F. In a large heavy-bottomed pan or Dutch oven, heat the olive oil over medium-high heat. Add in the ground beef and a pinch of salt, and brown for a couple minutes. Transfer to a bowl (don't worry if some parts are still raw, it's all going back in shortly). Add the onion, carrot, and another pinch of salt to the pan and sauté for 5 min. Add in the garlic and cook for another 3 min. Add in the tomato paste and peppercorns and cook for 1 min. Add the beef back in, along with any juices that have accumulated, along with the broth Guinness, Worcestershire sauce, and thyme. Bring to a boil, then cover and put in the oven for 45 min. Remove the cover and cook for another 45 min. Remove from the oven. In a small bowl, mix together the cornstarch and water and add to the beef mixture. Stir together. Season, to taste, with salt. Allow to cool before filling pies. It's best to let chill overnight.

Can make the pies 3 ways:

Muffin Pan Pies (~7 pies out of 1 sheet of pie dough)
Preheat oven to 375F. Roll out your pie crust on a lightly-floured surface to about 1/4"-thick. Cut out two different-sized circles using circular cookie cutters (one larger than the base of the muffin tin, and one about the size of the top of each mold). Place the larger circle into the muffin tin and press up the sides. Spoon in the filling, leaving a little room at the top. Place the smaller circle of dough on top, and press to seal (a form will help here). Cut a small "x" in the top of each pie. Mix the egg and water together in a small bowl, and brush over the tops of each pie. Bake for 15-20 min, until the crust is fully cooked through, golden brown, and flakey.

Fold-over pies (4 pies per sheet of puff pastry or pie dough)
Preheat oven to 375F for pie crust, 425F for puff pastry. Mix together egg and water in a small bowl. Roll out either pie crust, or puff pastry on a lightly-floured surface to about 1/4"-thick. Cut each sheet of puff pastry or pie dough into 4 rectangles. Place a spoonful of filling into a bit offset of the middle of each pastry piece. Brush the edges with the egg wash. Fold one half of the dough over and seal. Press the edges with the tines of a fork. Cut a small "x" into the top of each, and brush the tops with the egg wash. Place the hand pies on a prepared baking sheet. Bake for 20-30 min until fully cooked through, golden brown, and flakey.

Crock pies (4-6)
Preheat oven to 425F. Scoop the filling into oven safe bowls or crocks. Mix together egg and water in a small bowl. Roll out your puff pastry on a lightly-floured surface to about 1/4"-thick. Cut into 4 squares. Brush the edges of the pastry with the egg wash, and place (brushed side down) over the filled crocks, pressing on the edges to fully adhere them. Cut a small "x" into the top, and brush the top with the egg wash. Bake for 20-25 min until fully cooked through, golden brown, and flakey.

 
 


