Beef Stew
  --Cook's Illustrated

2 medium garlic cloves, minced (~2 tsp)
4 anchovy fillets, finely minced (~2 tsp)
1 tbsp tomato paste
1 boneless beef chuck-eye roast (~4 lbs) trimmed of excess fat, cut into 1 1/2" pieces
2 tbsp vegetable oil
1 large onion, halved and cut from pole to pole in 1/8" thick slices (~2 c)
4 medium carrots, peeled and cut into 1" pieces (~2 c)
1/4 c unbleached ap flour
2 c red wine
2 c low sodium chicken broth
2 bay leaves
4 sprigs fresh thyme
4 oz salt pork, rinsed of excess salt
1 lb yukon gold potatoes, scrubbed and cut into 1" pieces
1 1/2 c frozen pearl onions, thawed
2 tsp unflavored powdered gelatin (1 packet)
1/2 c water
1 c frozen peas, thawed
salt and pepper 

Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heave oven to 300F. Combine garlic and anchovies in small bowl; press with back of form to form paste. Stir in tomato paste and set mixture aside. Pat meat dry with paper towels. Do not season. Heat 1 tbsp oil in large heavy bottomed dutch oven over high heat until just starting to smoke. Add half of beef and cook until well browned on all sides, ~8 min, reducing heat if oil begins to smoke or fond begins to burn. Transfer beef to large plate and repeat with remaining oil and beef, leaving second batch in pot after browning. Reduce heat to medium and return first batch of beef to pot. Add onion and carrot and stir to combine with beef. Cook, scraping bottom of pan to loosen any browned bits, until onion is softened, 1-2 min. Add garlic mixture and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, ~30 s. Add flour and cook, stirring constantly, until no dry flour remains, ~30 s. Slowly add wine, scraping bottom of pan to loosen any browned bits. Increase heat to high and allow wine to simmer until thickened and slightly reduced, ~2 min. Stir in broth, bay leaves, thyme, and salt pork. Bring to simmer, cover, transfer to oven, and cook for 1 1/2 hrs. Remove pot from oven; remove and discard bay leaves and salt pork. Stir in potatoes, cover, return to oven, and cook until potatoes are almost tender, ~45 min. Using large spoon, skim any excess fat from surface of stew. Stir in pearl onions; cook over medium heat until potatoes and onions are cooked through and meat offers little resistance when poked with fork, ~15 min. Meanwhile, sprinkle gelatin over water in small bowl and allow to soften for 5 min. Increase heat to high, stir in softened gelatin mixture and peas; simmer until gelatin is fully dissolved and stew is thickened, ~3 min. Season with salt and pepper.


Notes: 4 lbs of blade steaks, trimmed of gristle and silver skin, can be substituted for chuck-eye roast. 
