Beef Wellington
  --Cook's Country
  
Beef:
1 center-cut beef tenderloin roast, 1½ pounds trimmed weight, 6-7" long and 4-4 1/2" in diameter
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 tsp Dijon mustard
1/2 tsp pepper

Sprinkle all sides of beef evenly with salt. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 12 hours or up to 3 days.

Pastry:
1 2/3 c (9 1/8 oz) bread flour
11 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1⁄2" cubes and chilled
1/2 ts[ table salt
1/4 c ice water

Using stand mixer fitted with paddle, mix flour, butter, and salt on medium-low speed until mixture is crumbly and pieces of butter are no larger than peas, 4-5 min. With mixer running, add ice water in steady stream. Increase speed to medium and continue to mix until smooth dough comes together around paddle, 1-3 min longer. Transfer dough to lightly floured counter. Remove 1/4 (~4 oz) of dough; shape into 3" square. Shape remaining dough into 6" square. Wrap both pieces in plastic and refrigerate for at least 8 hr or up to 2 days.

Duxelles:
4 shallots, chopped
2 garlic cloves, peeled
1 lb cremini mushrooms, trimmed and quartered
4 tbsp unsalted butter
1/8 tsp pepper
Pinch table salt
1 1/2 tsp Madeira
1 tsp minced fresh thyme

Process shallots and garlic in food processor until very finely chopped, ~30 s, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Transfer to small bowl. Pulse mushrooms until mushrooms resemble couscous, ~10 pulses, scraping down sides of bowl halfway through processing (do not overprocess). Melt butter in 12" nonstick skillet over medium-low heat. Add shallot mixture and cook, stirring frequently, until softened, 3-5 min. Stir in mushrooms, pepper, and salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until liquid given off by mushrooms has evaporated and mushrooms begin to sizzle, 25-30 min. Add Madeira to mushroom mixture and cook, stirring constantly, until evaporated, ~1 min. Off heat, stir in thyme. (If making duxelles ahead, let cool completely and refrigerate in airtight container for up to 3 days.)

Assembly:
8 slices prosciutto
1 large egg + 1 large yolk

Overlap 2 pieces of plastic on counter to form 20x20" square (it's OK if up to 2" of plastic hangs off edge of counter). Shingle prosciutto in center of plastic in 2 slightly overlapping rows to form 14x9" rectangle, with shorter side parallel to edge of counter. Transfer duxelles to prosciutto and use offset spatula to spread in even layer, leaving 1" border of prosciutto on all sides (if duxelles is cold, microwave for 1 min to soften before spreading). Unwrap beef and pat dry with paper towels. Brush all sides of beef with mustard and sprinkle with pepper. Arrange roast parallel to edge of counter, ~1/3  of way up duxelles. Using both hands, lift bottom edge of plastic to begin wrapping roast. Continue to roll roast, leaving plastic behind, until roast is completely wrapped in prosciutto. Tuck overhanging slices of prosciutto over each end of roast. Tightly roll roast in plastic and twist plastic tightly at each end to seal. Continue to twist ends of plastic and roll roast on counter until formed into snug cylinder. Refrigerate for at least 30 min or up to 2 days before cooking. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out larger piece of dough on generously floured counter into 14x12" rectangle. Drape dough over rolling pin, transfer to prepared sheet, and refrigerate. Roll smaller piece of dough into 12x5" rectangle. Transfer to second prepared sheet and refrigerate. Whisk together egg and yolk. Lay large pastry sheet directly on counter with short sides parallel to edge of counter. Brush entire surface with egg wash; set aside remaining egg wash. Unwrap beef and place on pastry, arranging it parallel to edge of counter and 2" from pastry edge closest to you. Wrap edge of pastry closest to you over beef. Holding edge in place, slowly roll roast away from you, keeping pastry snug to meat, until roast is covered. Allow pastry to overlap by 1" and trim away excess. Roll roast so seam is on top. Gently press and pinch overlapping dough to seal. Roll roast so seam is on bottom. To seal ends of roast, tuck sides of pastry tightly against meat as though you are wrapping a present, then fold top of pastry down, pressing snugly. Using rolling pin, roll excess dough at end of roast against counter to make it thinner and longer. Trim rolled end to 2" length and tuck under roast. Repeat process on other end of roast. Transfer roast, seam side down, to lightly greased rimmed baking sheet and refrigerate for at least 15 min or up to overnight (if refrigerating longer than 1 hr, wrap in plastic). Transfer smaller rectangle of dough, still on parchment, to counter, with short side parallel to edge of counter. Using ruler and sharp knife or pizza cutter, cut dough lengthwise into 1/4"-wide strips (you'll need 10-12 strips, depending on length of roast). Brush top, sides, and ends of roast with some of reserved egg wash; set aside remaining egg wash. Lay strips of dough diagonally across top of roast, leaving 1/2" between strips. Gently press strips to adhere to roast and trim excess at each end to 1/4". Using bench scraper, tuck ends of strips under roast. Refrigerate roast for at least 10 min. (Roast can be loosely covered with plastic and refrigerated for up to 24 hr.) Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 450F. Brush diagonal strips with reserved egg wash. Place thermometer probe through 1 end of roast so tip of probe is positioned at center of roast. Roast until center of beef registers 85F and crust is well browned and crisp, 40-45 min. Transfer sheet to wire rack, leaving probe in place to monitor temperature. Let rest, uncovered, until internal temperature reaches 130F, 40-45 min.

Sauce:
1 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp jarred green peppercorns
1 tbsp minced shallot
1 1/2 tbsp ap flour
3/4 c beef broth
2 tbsp brandy
1 tbsp soy sauce
1/2 c heavy cream

Melt butter in medium saucepan set over medium-low heat. Add peppercorns and shallot and cook, stirring frequently, until shallot is softened, 3-5 min. Add flour and cook, stirring constantly, for 2 min. Increase heat to medium and whisk in broth, brandy, and soy sauce. Bring to boil. Continue to cook, whisking occasionally, until mixture is reduced to 3/4 c, 10-12 min longer. Add cream and continue to cook, whisking occasionally, until reduced to 1 c, 8-10 min longer. Season with salt and pepper to taste and cover to keep warm.

To serve: Slide large metal spatula under roast to loosen from sheet. Use both hands to transfer roast to carving board. Using serrated knife, cut roast into 1" thick slices (to keep pastry intact, score through decorative strips before cutting each slice) and serve, passing sauce separately.



Notes: Dry sherry can be substituted for the Madeira. Use packaged prosciutto rather than freshly sliced deli prosciutto, as the slices will be easier to handle. Fecommend making the Wellington over a three-day period: Prepare the components on the first day, assemble it on the second day (remember to reserve your leftover egg wash so that you can give the pastry a final coat before roasting it), and bake and serve it on the third day. The sauce can be made as the roast is resting; alternatively, make it up to three days ahead and warm it right before serving.
