Beef Chow Fun
  --Daddy Lau aka Chung Sun Lau

Marinade:
1 tsp baking soda
1 tbsp cornstarch
1 tbsp oyster sauce
1 tbsp shoyu 
1 tsp tamari
0.25 tsp white pepper
2 tbsp water
1 tsp cooking wine
1 tsp sugar
1 tbsp cooking oil

In a medium bowl, mix all ingredients until everything is incorporated and smooth.

Main:
10 oz flank steak
0.50  yellow onion
1 handful bean sprouts
3 stems scallions
1 lb fresh flat rice noodles

Cut your flank steak into medium or 1/4" slices. Once cut, put the meat into a room-temperature water bath to rinse out the myoglobin. This helps the beef to cook and taste better. Peel and thinly slice the yellow onion into 1/4" thickness. Wash the bean sprouts (1 handful), drain, and set aside. Wash and chop the scallions (3 stems) into 1" long pieces. Use all of the green onions and separate the white parts from the green parts. Drain the meat from the water bath, squeeze out the excess water. Add the meat into the marinade and mix until the meat is fully coated in the marinade and set it aside. Prepare the rice noodles by separating the noodles if you see them stuck together. The best way to do this is to gently massage them between your hand and a cutting board. If there are a few noodles that are stubborn, you can peel them apart. 

Sauce:
1 tsp tamari
1 tbsp shoyu
1 tbsp oyster sauce

In a small bowll, mix all ingredients and set it aside.
 
Stir fry:
3 tbsp cooking oil
1 tsp sesame oil

Add cooking oil (1 tbsp) to the marinated beef to seal the juices in the beef. Heat up the wok to the highest heat for ~90 s  before adding more cooking oil (3 tbsp). This may vary depending on your cookware. Heat the oil for 30 s or until the oil starts to ripple. Add your beef and cook for 40-60 s on high heat. It's fine if it's a little red because we will continue to cook it later. Remove the beef from the wok and set it aside. You can strain the excess oil from the beef at this time. Wipe down the wok before cooking the other ingredients. Add a small amount of oil to the wok. You won't need a lot because the rice noodles already have some oil. Fry the yellow onion and the white parts of the scallions for 20-30 s or until fragrant. Add the rice noodles. Take your time stirring them because they will need some time to loosen up in the wok. If you over stir them, they can break. If your noodles are sticking to the wok, take them out and set aside. Scrub the wok clean, heat it back up to start frying again and add the noodles back. Cook the noodles for 2 min or until golden brown. Another way to know when they're ready is when you can smell them. Add the sauce and cook for 1 min until the noodles are well coated in the sauce. At this point, if you feel that the noodles are not dark enough, you can add more dark soy sauce. Add the green parts of the scallion and bean sprouts. Cook for 30-45 s before adding in the beef. Add the beef and mix. Let everything cook together for 1 more min. Turn off the heat and add the sesame oil
 


