Beet Panna Cotta with Candied Black Sesame Seeds
  --Cook's Illustrated

Panna cotta:
1 1/2 lbs (2 large) red beets, rinsed, peeled, and cut into 1" pieces
2 tsp unflavored gelatin
1 c + 2 tbsp heavy cream
1/4 c sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt
3/4 c buttermilk

Line fine mesh strainer with 3 layers of cheesecloth, leaving 6" overhang on all sides, and set over medium bowl. Process beets in food processor for 30 s. Stop processor, scrape down sides of bowl, then continue processing until beets form pulpy paste, 30-60 s. Transfer beet paste to prepared strainer and allow beet juice to drain into bowl. Gather overhanging cheesecloth and squeeze beets to release as much juice as possible (should get ~1 c). Optional but highly recommended: Adjust ove rack to middle position and heat to 200F. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Spread beet pulp in even layer on prepared sheet and transfer to oven. Bake until try and crunchy, 1-1 1/2 hr. Transfer 1/4 c beet crumbs to small bowl and set aside. Remaining crumbs can be stored in airtight container at room temp for up to 1 week. Pour 3/4 c beet juice to medium saucepan; remaining 1/4 into small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin even over surface of juice in bowl; let stand for 10 min to hydrate gelatin. Add cream, sugar, and salt to saucepan and whisk to combine. Cook over medium low heat, whisking frequently to dissolve sugar, until mixture registers 140F, ~5 min. Add gelatin mixture to saucepan, whisking to dissolve gelatin and break up any clumps, and continue cooking until mixture registers 150F, 1-2 min longer. Remove saucepan from heat and strain mixture through fine mesh strainer into large measuring cup or pitcher. Let cool to 105F. Add buttermilk and whisk to combine. Set 4-6 small bowls on baking sheet. Divide base evenly among bowls. Cover sheet in plastic wrap, making sure plastic doesn't touch surface of panna cotta; refrigerate until just set (should wobble when shaken slightly), ~4 hrs. Can be refrigerated for up to 24 hrs.

Brittle:
2 tbsp black sesame seeds
1 tbsp sugar
1 tsp honey
flake sea salt

Line rimmed baking sheet with silicone pan linre. Combine seeds, sugar, and honey in small skillet. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly with rubber spatula, until mixture has sandy texture, 1-2 min. Continue to cook, stirring frequently, until sugar melts and caramelizes, 1-2 min longer. Off heat, stir mixture until seeds are evenly coated and quickly transfer to prepared sheet. Spread into thin, even layre and let cool at room temp until sugar hardens, 5-10 min. Break brittle into 1/4" pieces. Combine with 3/4 tsp flake sea salt. If you made the beet crumbs, combine with brittle. Cam be stored in airtight container for up to 1 week.

Sprinkle panna cotta with brittle and serve.
