Bobby Flay's Brussel Sprout Nachos

Pickled Onions:
¾ c red wine vinegar
½ c freshly squeezed lime juice
¼ c water
2 tbsp grenadine
1 tbsp granulated sugar
1 tsp kosher salt
1 red onion, thinly sliced

In a small saucepan, combine all the onion pickling ingredients, except the onions, over high heat. Bring to a simmer and cook until the sugar has dissolved, ~2 min. Remove from heat and let cool for 5 min. Place the onions in a heatproof container with a lid and pour the pickling mixture over them. Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hr and up to 48 hrs.

Pickled Fresno Chiles:
2 c red wine vinegar
¼ c water
3 tbsp granulated sugar
1 tsp kosher salt
4 large Fresno chiles, thinly sliced

In a small saucepan, combine all the Fresno pickling ingredients, except the chiles, over high heat. Bring to a simmer and cook until the sugar has melted, about 2 min. Remove from heat and let cool 5 min. Place the chiles in a heatproof container with a lid and pour the pickling mixture over them. Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hr and up to 48 hrs.

Cheese Sauce:
2 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp all-purpose flour
2 c whole milk, heated
8 oz Muenster cheese, finely chopped
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
Hot sauce, to taste 

In a medium saucepan, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add the flour and cook until pale blond, 2 min. Slowly whisk in the milk and cook, whisking constantly, until the sauce is thickened and the raw flour taste has been cooked out, 5-6 min. Reduce the heat to low and add the cheese. Let sit for 1 min, then whisk until smooth. Season with salt, pepper and hot sauce. Cover and keep warm.

Assembly:
8¼ oz bag blue tortilla chips
3 tbsp olive oil or vegetable oil
12 oz (24 medium) Brussels sprouts, trimmed and thinly sliced
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
Muenster cheese sauce
Pickled red onions
Pickled Fresno chiles
¼ c chopped cilantro leaves, for garnish
Finely grated lime zest, for garnish

Preheat oven to 200F. On a large baking sheet, spread out the tortilla chips in an even layer. Heat the chips in the oven while you prepare the rest of the dish. In a large nonstick skillet, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add the Brussels sprouts and cook, stirring occasionally, until tender and crisp, 3-4 min. Season with salt and pepper. Pour some of the warm cheese sauce onto a large platter. Top with a layer of the warm chips and more sauce. Sprinkle some of the Brussels sprouts, pickled onions and chiles over the sauce, then repeat to make one more layer. Garnish with cilantro and lime zest, then serve.
