Blackberry Buttermilk Pie

Crust:
1/3 c granulated sugar
1 stick salted butter, softened
1 1/4 c ap flour
2 tbsp whole milk
1 tsp vanilla
confectioners' sugar for dusting

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the sugar and butter until light and fluffy. Add the flour, milk, and vanilla, and mix until a smooth dough comes together. Cover in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 min.

Filling:
1 c granulated sugar
1 stick salted butter, melted
3 tbsp ap flour
3 eggs
1 c buttermilk
1 tbsp blackberry moonshine
1/4 tsp freshly grated nutmeg
1 c blackberries

In a medium bowl, whisk together the sugar and butter until incorporated. Add the flour and eggs, and whisk until smooth. Whisk in the buttermilk, moonshine, and nutmeg to incorporate, then set aside.

Drizzle:
1/4 c blackberries
1/2 c blackberry jam
3 tbsp blackberry moonshine
1/2 tsp kosher salt

In a small bowl, mash the blackberries with a fork until they fall apart. Stir in the remaining ingredients and set aside.


Roll the dough out between 2 sheets of parchment paper dusted with confectioners' sugar, into a 12" circle. Transfer to a 9" pie dish and trim the excess, then crimp the edges. Transfer the pie dish to the freezer to freeze for 1hr. Preheat the oven to 350F. Remove the pie shell from the freezer and layer the blackberries in an even layer on the bottom. Pour in the filling and bake until lightly golden, 30 min. Cover with foil and continue to bake until the filling is set, 30 min more. Let the pie cool completely, then slice and serve with a spoonful of drizzle over the top.


Can buy blackberry moonshine online (brand: ole smoky) if you don't want to make it


Blackberry Moonshine
1 c water
1 c sugar
2 c blackberries
3/4 c moonshine (can sub everclear or vodka)
lime zest
lemon zest

Make simple syrup: Add water and sugar to a pot on high heat. Squeeze a couple of blackberries into the mixture. Once well melted and mixed, place in mason jar. Cover and refrigerate. Can be stored up to 5 days in refrigerator. Add to mason jar 2 c washed and towel dried black berries. If using frozen, defrost and towl dry first. Add enough moonshine to fill to brim of mason jar. Add zest and 1 c of the simple syrup. Seal and let sit in a low lit room lightly shaking daily until sugar is dissolved. Once dissolved, let it sit for at least 24 hrs, but the longer the better. After desired infusion is complete, strain with a fine mesh strainer, cheesecloth, or muslin to remove any seeds and extra bits. It is optional to gently press berries to extract the juice and moonshine.
