Bowen Yang's Mapo Tofu
  --Bowen Yang

1 tbsp Sichuan peppercorns
14-16-oz package firm tofu
salt
4 tbsp vegetable oil
8 oz ground pork (or beef)
2 tbsp doubanjiang (fermented chile bean sauce or paste)
3 garlic cloves, finely chopped or pressed
1 tbsp finely chopped fresh ginger
1 tsp Sichuan coarse chile powder
1 c chicken stock
1 tbsp shoyu + more if needed
1 tsp sugar
1 tsp Chinkiang (black) vinegar
2 tsp cornstarch mixed with 2 tsp cold water (to form a slurry)
1 tsp toasted sesame oil
2 tbsp thinly sliced scallions
steamed rice, for serving

Heat the Sichuan peppercorns in a dry small frying pan over medium-high until just starting to smoke, tossing or stirring occasionally, ~3 min. Transfer the peppercorns immediately to a mortar and let cool, then use the mortar and pestle to grind to a fine powder. Set aside for later. Heat a medium saucepan of water over high. Meanwhile, drain tofu and cut into bite-sized cubes. When the water is at a gentle simmer (a rapid boil would make the tofu crumble), add a generous pinch of salt. Carefully add the tofu pieces. Simmer gently for 2-3 min, then turn the heat off and allow the tofu to steep. To a wok or large frying pan over high heat, add the vegetable oil. When the oil is hot, add the ground pork and cook, breaking up the meat, for 2-3 min, until the pork is no longer pink. Add the doubanjiang and cook, stirring, for ~2 min. Stir in the garlic, ginger and chile powder. Stir-fry for 30 s. Add the chicken stock, shoyu, sugar and vinegar. Bring to a simmer then turn the heat down to medium and cook, until the liquid has reduced by about one-fourth and is starting to thicken, 3-4 min. Stir in the cornstarch slurry and the ground Sichuan peppercorns  and let simmer until thickened, 1-2 min. Use a slotted spoon to drain the tofu and gently stir it into the pork mixture. Simmer until slightly thickened, 1-2 min more. Taste and season with salt or soy sauce if needed. Remove from heat, drizzle with the sesame oil and gently toss. Transfer to a serving bowl and sprinkle with scallions. Serve with steamed rice.


Notes: can substitute the pork with jackfruit meat or tvp grounds 
