Bread and Butter Pickles
  --America's Test Kitchen

2 lb pickling cucumbers, ends trimmed, sliced 1/4" thick
1 onion, quartered and sliced thin
1 red bell pepper, stemmed, seeded, and cut into 1 1/2" matchsticks
2 tbsp canning and pickling salt
3 c apple cider vinegar
2 c sugar
1 c water
1 tbsp yellow mustard seeds
3/4 tsp ground turmeric
1/2 tsp celery seeds
1/4 tsp ground cloves
1/2 tsp Ball Pickle Crisp

Toss cucumbers, onion, and bell pepper with salt in large bowl and refrigerate for 3 hr. Drain vegetables in colander (do not rinse), then pat dry with paper towels. Meanwhile, set canning rack in large pot, place 4x1‑pint jars in rack, and add water to cover by 1". Bring to simmer over medium high heat, then turn off heat and cover to keep hot. Bring vinegar, sugar, water, mustard seeds, turmeric, celery seeds, and cloves to boil in large saucepan over medium-high heat; cover and remove from heat. Place dish towel flat on counter. Using jar lifter, remove jars from pot, draining water back into pot. Place jars upside down on towel and let dry for 1 min. Add 1/8 tsp Pickle Crisp to each hot jar, then pack tightly with vegetables. Return brine to brief boil. Using funnel and ladle, pour hot brine over cucumbers to cover, distributing spices evenly leaving 1/2" headspace. Slide wooden skewer along inside of jar, pressing slightly on vegetables to remove air bubbles, and add extra brine as needed. For short-term storage: Let jars cool to room temperature, cover with lids, and refrigerate for 1 day before serving. (Pickles can be refrigerated for up to 3 months; flavor will continue to mature over time.) For long-term storage: While jars are warm, wipe rims clean, add lids, and screw on rings until fingertip-tight; do not overtighten. Before processing jars, heat water in canning pot to temperature between 120-140F. Lower jars into water, bring water to 180-185F, then cook for 30 min, adjusting heat as needed to maintain water between 180-185F. Remove jars from pot and let cool for 24 hours. Remove rings, check seal, and clean rims. (Sealed jars can be stored for up to 1 year.)
