No Knead Brioche Buns
  --Cook's Illustrated

3 1/4 c (17 3/4 oz) bread flour
2 1/4 tsp instant or rapid rise yeast
1 1/2 tsp salt
7 large eggs (1 lightly beaten with pinch of salt)
1/2 c water, room temp
1/3 c (2 1/3 oz) sugar
16 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly

Whisk flour, yeast, and salt together in large bowl. Whisk 6 eggs, water, and sugar together in medium bowl until sugar has dissolved. Whisk in butter until smooth. Add egg mixture to flour and stir with wooden spoon until uniform mass forms and no dry flour remains, ~1 min. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and let stand for 10 min. Holding edge of dough with your fingertips, fold dough over itself by gently lifting and folding edge of dough toward middle. Turn bowl 45 degrees; fold again. Turn bowl and fold dough 6 more times (total of 8 folds). Cover with plastic and let rise for 30 min. Repeat folding and rising every 30 min, 3 more times. After fourth set of folds, cove rbowl tightly with plasic and refrigerate for at least 16 hrs uup to 48 hrs. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Transfer dough to well floured surface and divide into 10 equal pieces. Working with 1 piece at a time, pat dough into disk. Working around circumference, fold edge of dough toward center until ball forms. Flip dough over and, without applying pressure, move your hands in small circular motions to form dough into smooth, taut round. Repeat with remaining dough. Arrange buns on prepared sheets, 5 per sheet. Cover loosely with plastic and let rise at room rempt until almost doubled in size, 1-1 1/2 hrs. 30 min before baking, adjust oven racks to upper middle and lower middle positions and heat oven to 350F. Remove plastic and brush rolls gently with remaining 1 egg beaten with salt. Bake until golden brown and internal temp registers 190F, 15-20 min, rotating and switching sheets halfway through baking. Transfer sheets to wire rack and let cool for 5 min. Transfer buns to wire rack. Serve warm or room temp.
