Broccoli Casserole
  --Cookie and Kate
  
2 c vegetable broth or water
1 c quinoa (any color), rinsed under running water in a mesh sieve for a min and drained
16 oz broccoli florets, either pre-packaged or sliced from 2 large bunches of broccoli
2 tbsp olive oil
3/4 tsp salt
10 twists of freshly ground black pepper
1/4 tsp red pepper flakes, omit if sensitive to spice
8 oz (~2 1/2 c) freshly grated cheddar cheese, divided
1 c low-fat milk (cow’s milk tastes best but unsweetened plain almond milk works, too)
1/2 tbsp butter or 1 ½ tsp olive oil
1 clove garlic, pressed or minced
1 slice whole wheat bread (substitute gluten-free bread for a gluten-free casserole)

Preheat oven to 400F. Line a large, rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper for easy cleanup. Bring the vegetable broth or water to boil in a heavy-bottomed, medium-sized pot. Add the quinoa, reduce heat to low and simmer, uncovered, for 17-20 min, or until all of the liquid is absorbed. Cover and set aside to steam for 10 min. Slice any large broccoli florets in half to make bite-sized pieces. Transfer the broccoli to your prepared baking sheet and toss with 2 tbsp olive oil, until lightly coated on all sides. Sprinkle with salt and arrange in a single layer. Bake for ~20 min, until the broccoli is tender and starting to caramelize on the edges. Tear your piece of bread into bite-sized pieces and toss them into a food processor or blender. Process until the bread has broken into small crumbs. In a small pan over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the garlic and cook just until fragrant, stirring often. Add the bread crumbs and cook for 2-3 min, until slightly browned and crisp. Set aside to cool. (If you cooked your bread crumbs in a cast iron skillet, transfer them to a bowl to prevent them from burning.) Reduce the oven heat to 350F. Add the salt, pepper and red pepper flakes to the pot of quinoa, and stir to combine. Set aside 3/4 c of the cheese for later, then add the rest of the cheese to the pot. Pour in the milk and stir until the cheese and milk are evenly incorporated in the quinoa. Pour the cheesy quinoa into a 9" square baking dish and top with the roasted broccoli. Stir until the broccoli is evenly mixed in with the quinoa. Sprinkle the surface of the casserole with the reserved 3/4 c cheese, then sprinkle the breadcrumbs on top. Bake, uncovered, for 25 min, until the top is golden. Allow to cool for 10 min before serving.

