Bulgur Bowl with Vegetables and Marinated Tofu
  --Cook's Illustrated
  
5 tbsp vegetable oil
3 shallots, sliced into thin rounds
1 3/4 tsp + pinch salt, divided, + more for cooking
3 tbsp sriracha, divided
2 tbsp honey, divided
14 oz firm tofu, cut into 3/4" cubes
1/2 c vinegar
1 1/2 c thinly sliced red cabbage
1 lb carrots, peeled and sliced on bias 1/2" thick
1 lb broccolini, trimmed nad cut into 1" pieces
1 1/4 c medium grind bulgur
2 tbsp mayo

Adjust over rack to middle position and heat oven to 425F. Heat 1/4 c oil and shallots in large saucepan over medium heat, stirring constantly once shallots start to sizzle. Cook until shallots are deep golden, 6-10 min. Drain shallots in fine mesh strainer set oevr medium bowl; reserve oil. Transfer shallots to paper towel lined plate and sprinkle with pinch salt. Whisk together 2 tbsp sriracha, 1 tbsp honey, and 1/2 tsp salt in second medium bowl. Add tofu and gently toss until evenly coated. Cover and refrigerate. Combine vinegar, 1/2 tsp salt, and remaining honey in third medium bowl. Microwave until simmering, 1-2 min. Add cabbage and stir until coated. Set aside, stirring occasionally. Toss carrots with 1 1/2 tsp oil and 1/4 tsp salt and spread on half of rimmed baking sheet. Toss broccolini with remaining oil and remaining salt and pile on other half of sheet. Roast until carrots are tender and broccolini is crisp in spots, 15-20 min, stirring vegetables halfway through roasting. While vegetables are roasting, add 6 c water to now empty saucepan and bring to boil over high heat. Add bulgur and 1 tsp salt. Reduce heat and simmer until tender, ~5 min. Drain bulgur in fine mesh strainer and return it to saucepan. Cover and set aside. Measure out 2 tbsp cabbage liquid and add to reserved shallot oil. Whisk in mayo and remaining sriracha. Mix 3 tbsp dressing into bulgur. Divide bulgur into 4 wide bowls. Arrange tofu, carrots, and broccolini in piles that cover bulgur. Using fork, lift cabbage out of liquid and divide evenly among bowls. Drizzle tofu and vegetables with remaining dressing. Sprinkle with shallots and serve.
