Glazed Buttermilk Blackberry Scones
  --Anna Gordon

Dough:
2 1/4 stick butter
4 c ap flour
1/3 c + 1 tbsp sugar
1 tbsp baking powder
3/4 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
zest from 1 lemon
1 1/4 c fresh blackberries
1 c buttermilk, divided
1/4 c heavy cream, for brushing

Preheat oven to 400F; line baking sheet with parchment paper. Cut butter into 1/4" cubes and store in refrigerator while measuring other ingredients. In a large mixing bowl, combine the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, salt, lemon zest and cold butter. Use your hands to rub the butter into the dry ingredients. Stop when all the butter is incorporated and there are no more large pieces. Pour in 3/4 c buttermilk and gently fold wet into dry until a dough forms. Add the berries without crushing them by mixing in gently. Add the remaining buttermilk. Place the dough onto a lightly floured clean surface. With as little handling as possible, use your hands to shape the dough into a circle, approximately 2" tall. Cut the dough into triangle shapes, or use a round cookie/biscuit cutter 2-3" in diameter to cut out circles. Gently reshape and cut the remaining dough until it's all cut. Place the scones on the prepared sheet tray, at least 3" apart. Using a pastry brush, brush the heavy cream on top of the scones. Bake for 24 min, rotating halfway through. The scones are done when the exteriors are a golden brown and have a crackly crust. Remove from the oven and allow to cool.

Glaze:
1 c fresh blackberries
1/4 c sugar
juice from 1 lemon
1-2 c confectioners' sugar

Combine the berries and sugar, mashing up the berries and allowing the sugar to coat as much of the fruit as possible. Rest them in a mesh strainer with a small mixing bowl underneath to catch the juice for roughly 10-20 min. Occasionally stir the berries and press out the juice. Once all the juice has been extracted, strain the sauce and discard the seeds and pulp. Stir in half the lemon juice and whisk in 1 c of confectioners' sugar until fully dissolved. For a thicker glaze, add more confectioners' sugar until the desired consistency is reached. For a tarter glaze, add in the remaining lemon juice. Once the scones have fully cooled, drizzle them with the glaze, or dip the scones directly into the glaze. Allow the glaze to set before serving.

Notes: Makes 12
