Ultimate Flaky Buttermilk Biscuits
  --America's Test Kitchen

3 c ap flour (recommend King Arthur)
2 tbsp sugar
4 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1 1/2 tsp salt
16 tbsp (2 sticks) unsalted butter, frozen for 30 min
1 1/4 c buttermilk, chilled

Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside. Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder and soda, and salt together in large bowl. Coat sticks of butter in flour mixture, then grate 7 tbso from each stick on large holes of box grater directly into flour mixture. Toss gently to combine. Set aside remaining 2 tbsp butter. Add buttermilk to flour mixture and fold with spatula until just combined (dough will look dry). Transfer dough to liberally floured work surface. Dust surface of dough with flourl using floured hands, press dough into rough 7" square. Roll dough into 12x9" rectangle with short side parallel to edge of counter. Starting at bottom of dough, fold into thirds like business letter, using bench scraper or metal spatula to release dough from surface. Press top of dough firmly to seal folds. Turn dough 90 degrees clockwise. Repeat rolling into 12x9" rectangle, folding into thirds, and turning clockwise 4 more times, for a total of 5 sets of folds. After last set of folds, roll dough into 8 1/2" square about 1" thick. Transfer dough to prepared sheet, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 30 min. Adjust oven rack to upper-middle position and heat to 400F. Transfer dough to lighly floured cutting board. Using sharp, floured chef's knife, trim 1/4" of dough from each side of square and discard. Cur remaining dough into 9 squares, flouring knife after each cut. Arrange biscuits at least 1" apart on sheet. Melt reserved butter; brush tops of biscuits with melted butter. Bake until tops are golden brown, 22-25 min, rotating sheet halfway through baking. Transfer biscuits to wire rack and let cool for 15 min before serving.



Notes: King Arthur is recommended as it's a higher-protein ap flour, other brands with similar protein ammount will work
