Buttermilk Sunshine Cookies
  --Anna Gordon

Curd:
1/2 c fresh lemon juice
1/2 c sugar
5 tbsp butter
7 egg yolks

In a medium saucepan over medium-low heat, bring the lemon juice, sugar and butter to a gentle simmer. Meanwhile, place the egg yolks in a medium glass or metal bowl. Make a circle with a wet dish towel and nest the bowl of eggs inside to stabilize it. Once the butter has melted and the ingredients in the pot are simmering, remove from the heat and, while quickly whisking the yolks, slowly drizzle a quarter of the hot liquid into the yolks. Keep whisking constantly so that you evenly start to cook the yolks without making scrambled eggs. Pour the rest of the liquid into the bowl while whisking. Pour everything back into the pot, and over medium-low heat, whisk the curd continually until it thickens, ~2-3 min. The curd is finished when it can coat the back of a spoon without dripping off. Pour the curd into a clean, cool bowl and lay a piece of plastic wrap directly on the surface to avoid a skin from forming. Place in the refrigerator to set.

Dough:
2 1/2 c ap flour
3/4 c cake flour
1/2 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
1 1/3 c sugar
1 egg
1 c buttermilk
1/2 c butter, melted and cooled
1 c sour cream
1 tbsp vanilla
confectioners' sugar for dusting

Preheat oven to 325F; line a baking sheet with parchment paper. In a medium bowl, combine the 2 flours with the baking soda and salt, and stir to combine. Set aside. Combine the sugar and egg in the bowl of a stand mixer. Stir in the buttermilk, then add the melted butter until fully incorporated. Mix in the sour cream and vanilla, scraping down the bowl as needed. Add half of the flour mixture and gently combine. Scrape down the bowl and add the remaining dry ingredients until fully incorporated. Scoop rounded tablespoons of the dough onto the baking sheet, ~2" apart. Bake for 12 min, rotating halfway through. Remove from the oven, and using the back of a tablespoon, make a deep indent into each cookie. (If you like lemon curd a lot, make the dent wide and deep.) Put the cookies back in the oven for 5-7 min, or until the edges just start to show a golden brown. Remove from the oven and let cool. Once the cookies have fully cooled, fill the dents with curd, using a spoon or a disposable piping bag. Dust with confectioners' sugar and serve.
