Butter Chicken
  --Asha Loupy

Chicken:
3/4 c plain, full-fat yogurt
4 tbsp Tandoori Masala
1 tsp Diamond Crystal or 1/2 tsp other kosher salt
2 lb boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 1 1/2" pieces

In a medium bowl, whisk together the yogurt, tandoori masala, and salt until smooth. Add the chicken thigh pieces and stir to coat each piece in the marinade. Cover and refrigerate for at least 6 hr to overnight (12-24-hr marination time is best). Remove the chicken from the refrigerator before you start making the butter sauce to come to room temp.

Sauce:
5 tbsp butter, cold, divided
2 tbsp neutral oil
1 1/2 tsp whole Nandini Coriander
1 tsp whole Nagauri Cumin
3 Kandyan Cloves
2 pods Baraka or Iniya Green Cardamom, lightly crushed
1 very large or 2 small-to-medium white or yellow onions, thinly sliced
5 garlic cloves, finely chopped
1" pieces ginger, finely chopped
1 1/2 tbsp coconut sugar, plus more to taste
1 1/2 tsp powdered Sirārakhong Hāthei Chillies
1 1/4 tsp garam masala
1 teastsppoon Byadgi or Kashmiri Chillies
1/4 tsp Pragati Turmeric
1/4 tsp Peni Miris Cinnamon
28 oz can + 14 oz can whole tomatoes
1 c water
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt + more to taste
3 tbsp Nagauri Paan Methi, divided
1/2 c heavy whipping cream + more for finishing
chopped cilantro, for finishing

Heat 2 tbsp butter and oil in a large heavy-bottomed pot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Add the coriander, cumin, cloves, and cardamon, stir to coat in the hot fat, and cook until the coriander seeds turn a shade darker, ~30 s to 1 min. Add the onions and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions have softened and are starting to turn light golden, ~12-15 min. While the onions are cooking, preheat the broiler to high, moving the rack to be ~4-6" from the broiler. Add the ginger, garlic, and coconut sugar to the softened onions, and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until the ginger and garlic soften and the onions turn deep golden, about another 4-5 min. Stir in the Sirarakhong Hathei chillies, garam masala, Byadgi or Kashmiri chillies, turmeric, and cinnamon, and cook until the spices are fragrant, ~45 s. Add the tomatoes and their juices and 1 c water, gently breaking the whole tomatoes up with a spoon, and bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat to medium low and cook, uncovered, until the tomatoes lose their raw flavor and the sauce has reduced slightly, ~20-22 min.  While the sauce is simmering, cook the chicken. Spread the chicken in a single layer onto a large, rimmed baking sheet. Broil until cooked through and burnished in spots, ~12-15 min. Remove from the oven and set aside. Transfer the tomato mixture to a blender, reserving the pot, and let it cool for 10 min. Add 2 tbsp paan methi, cover, and, holding the cover in place with a kitchen towel over it, start blending on low (you don’t want the heat to cause the blender lid to come off!). Once the mixture is looking smooth, stop and add the remaining 3 tbsp butter, and start blending again, slowly increasing the speed to medium high, and purée until smooth and silky. Taste and adjust salt and sugar, if necessary. Transfer the blended sauce back to the pot and stir in the reserved chicken and any drippings that have accumulated. Add the heavy whipping cream and crumble in the remaining 1 tbsp paan methi, and stir to combine, place over medium heat, and bring to a simmer. Cover partially and cook until the chicken is heated through, ~5-7 min. To serve, transfer to a shallow serving bowl, drizzle with an extra flourish of heavy whipping cream, if desired, and finish with a sprinkle of chopped cilantro. Enjoy with naan for scooping up all that deliciousness!



