Macanese Meat Loaf (Capela)

7 slices (8oz) day old bread, crust removed
1 1/2 c whole milk
1/2 c (1/2oz) dried wood ear mushrooms
boiling water, for soaking
1/3 c olive oil
1 lb (2 medium) yellow onions, finely chopped
2 lbs ground pork
2 lbs ground beef
6 oz chorizo or linguica, minced
1 1/2 c grated edam cheese, divided
1/2 c pitted black olives, finely chopped
1/4 c pine nuts, toasted
1/4 c almonds, toasted and roughly chopped
2 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp kosher salt
1 tbsp fershly ground black pepper
1 tsp lemon zest
4 eggs, divided
6 slices bacon, halved crosswise

Preheat oven to 350F. In a small bowl, comvine the bread and the milk, and let soak for 20 min. Squeeze the bread to drain any excess milk, then transfer to a large bowl. Meanwhile, in a small heatproof bowl, cover the wood ear mushrooms with boiling water and let sit until rehydrated, 15 min. Drain and julienne, then transfer to the bowl with the bread. In a 12" skillet, heat the olive oil over medium high heat. Add the onions and cook, stirring occasionally, until lightly caramelized, 5-7 min. Let cool completely, then transfer to the bowl with the mushrooms and bread. To the large bowl, add the meat, 1 c of grated cheese, the olives, pine nuts, almonds, lemon juice, salt, pepper, lemon zest, and 3 of the eggs. Using your hands, mix the meat until well incorporated, then transfer to a 12" cast iron skillet. Press the meat loaf into a ring shape, making sure the top of the meat loaf is even with the rim of the pan and that there is a 4" hole in the center. Beat the remaining egg and brush the meat loaf liberally with half. Sprinkle the remaining 1/2 c of grated cheese over the meat loaf and brush with the remaining egg. Lay the bacon slices around the meat loaf, starting in the center and draping out to the edge, like the hands of a clock. Place an ovenproof 4" bowl in the center of the meat loaf, making sure the rim sits underneath the top of the meat loaf, so it can collect excess fat. Place the skillet on a parchment lined baking sheet and bake until an internal temp of 150F is reached according to an instant read thermometer, 1 hr - 1 hr 10 min. Let cool for 20 min, then remove the bowl and discard any collected fat. Slice the meat loaf and serve.
