Caranel Espresso Yule Log
  --Cook's Illustrated
  
Filling:
2 c heavy cream, divided
1 tbsp instant espresso powder
3/4 c (5 1/4 oz) sugar
1/4 c water
1 tbsp light corn syrup
4 oz cream cheese, cut into 8 pieces and softened

Pour 1 c cream into wide bowl. Whisk toegher espresso powder and remaining 1 c cream in small saucepan and bring to simmer over medium heat. Remove from heat and cover to keep hot. Bring sugar, water, and corn syrup to boil in large heavy bottomed saucepan over medium high heat. Cook, without stirring, until mixture is straw colored, 6-8 min. Reduce heat to medium low and continue to cook, swirling saucepan occasionally, until mixture is deep coppery brown and just starting to smoke, 4-7 min longer. Off heat, carefully whisk in hot cream mixture a little at a time. Add cream cheese. Cover and let sit for 5 min. Whisk until mostly smooth, some small flecks of cream cheese are ok. Transfer mixture to bowl with cream and stir to combine. Cover and refrigerate until mixture registers 50F or below, at least 1 1/2 hr or up to 4 days.

Cake:
1 1/3 c (5 1/3 oz) cake flour
3/4 c (5 1/4 oz) sugar
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp salt
5 large eggs, separated
1/2 c vegetable oil
1/4 c water
2 tsp vanilla
1/4 tsp cream of tartar

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat to 350F. Lightly grease 18x13" rimmed baking sheet, line with parchment paper, and lightly grease parchment. Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt together in large wide bowl. Whisk yokls, oil, water, and vanilla into flour mixture until smooth batter forms. Using stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment, whip egg whites and cream of tartar on medium low speed until foamy, ~1 min. Increase speed to medium high and whip until stiff peaks form, 1 1/2-2 min. Transfer 1/3 of egg whites to better and whisk gently until mixture is lightened. Using rubber spatula, gently fold remaining whites into batter. Pour batter into prepared sheet and spread evenly. Firmly tap sheet on counter 3 times to remove large air bubbles. Bake until cake springs back when pressed lightly in center, 12-14 min. While cake bakes, soak clean dish town with water and wring out thoroughly. Transfer sheet to wire rack. Immediately run knife around edge of sheet, then carefully invert cake onto second wire rack. Carefully remove parchment. Lay damp towel over cake annd invert first wire rack over towel. Invert cake and remove rack. Starting from short side, gently roll cake and towel together into jelly roll shape. Let cake cool on rack, seam side down, for 1 hr.

Ganache:
3/4 c heavy cream
6 oz bittersweet chocolate, chopped fine
2 tsp light corn syrup

Bring cream to simmer in small saucepan over medium heat. Place chocolate and corn syrup in bowl, pour cream over top, and let stand for 1 min. Whisk mixture until smooth. Let cool until mixture has consistency of pudding, ~1 hr.

Assembly:
confectioners' sugar (optional)

Transfer chilled filling to bowl of stand mixer fitted with whisk attachmnet. Whip on high speed until mixture is thick and fluffy and resembles buttercream frosting, 1 1/2-2 min. Gently unroll cake with short side parallel to counter edges, innermost edge of cake will remain slightly curled, do not flatten. Spread filling evenly over cake, leaving 1/2" margin on each short side. Reroll cake, leaving towel behind as you roll. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 20 min or up to 2 days. Arrange 2 12x4" strips of parchment 1" apart on serving platter. Unwrap cake and place on cutting board. Using sharp chef knife, trin 1/2" slice from each end of log, wiping knife clean between cuts; discard trimmings. To make branch stump, cut 1 end of cake at 45 degree angle, staring 1 1/2" from end of log. Transfer larger cake to platter, centering it lenghtwise on parchment. To attach stump, rest traight side of smaller piece against side of log. Fill in top of space between pieces with ~1 tbsp ganache. Using offset spatula, gently spread remaining ganache over log, leaving cut ends exposed. Use tines of fork to make wood grain pattern on surface. Carefully slide parchment from beneath cake. Refrigerate cake uncovered ~20 min. Cake can be loosely covered and refrigerated for up to 24 hrs; let stand at room temp for 30 min before serving. Dust lightly with confectioners' sugar, if using. To slice, dip sharp knife in very hot water and wipe dry between cuts.

