Carrot Harissa Toast

Pickled Carrots:
1/2 c red wine vinegar
1/2 c water
1/4 c sugar
1 tbsp salt
2 small purple carrots, thinly sliced into rounds

In a small saucepan, combine the vinegar, water, sugar, and salt over high heat. Bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar and salt. Place the carrots in a heatproof bowl and cover with the pickling liquid. Let cool completely and set aside.

Carrot Salad:
1 tsp coriander, toasted
1 tsp fennel seeds, toasted
1 tsp whole black peppercorns, toasted
1/4 tsp caraway seeds, toasted
1/4 tsp cumin seeds, toasted
8 oz (4 medium) tricolor carrots, peeled and small dice
1/2 c freshly squeezed oj
1 tbsp blue agave
1 tbsp olive oil
1 green apple, peeled, cored, and small dice
kosher salt to taste

In a spice grinder, combine the toasted coriander, fennel, peppercorns, caraway, and cumin seeds. Grind into a fine powder, then transfer to a small saucepan along with the carrots, oj, and agave. Cook over medium high heat until the carrots are tender and the juice has reduced, 3-4 min. Remove from the heat and transfer to a bowl, then let cool completely. Once cool, stir in the olive oil and apple until incorporated. Season with salt and set aside.

Carrot-Harissa Spread
Kosher salt to taste
12 oz (8 large) carrots, peeled and roughly chopped
3 tbsp olive oil
2 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp harissa

Bring a medium pot of salted water to a boil. Add the carrots and cook until tender, 5-6 min. Drain the carrots and transfer to a blender with the olive oil, lemon juice, and harissa, Puree until smooth, then transfer to a bowl and set aside.

Whipped Tofu:
7 oz (1/2 block) firm tofu
1 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp olive oil
kosher salt to taste

In a clean blender, combine all the ingredients and puree until smooth. Transfer to a squeeze bottle or small piping bag.

Assembly:
4 slices sourdough bread, toasted
carrot-top leaves for garnish

Spread 1/4 c of the carrot spread onto each piece of toast, then, using a slotted spoon, top with 1/4 c of the carrot salad. Pipe dots of the whipped tofu around the toast, then garnish with the pickled carrots and carrot-top leaves. Slice in half crosswise, then serve.
