Gluten Free Carrot Cake
  --Chris Morocco

Cake:
1/2 c virgin coconul oil, melted + more for pans
3 c almond flour + more for dusting
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp baking powder
1 tsp ground cardamom
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp baking soda
5 large eggs
1 1/4 c packed dark brown sugar
1 tsp vanilla
10 oz carrots, peeled, coarsely shredded, squeezed firmly to expel excess water
3/4 c shredded unsweetened coconut
3/4 c walnuts, finely chopped
1/2 c golden raisins

Preheat oven to 350F. Grease 2x8" parchment lined round cake pans with oil, then dust with almond flour, tapping out excess. Whisk salt, baking powder, cardamomm, cinnamon, ginger, baking soda, and almond flour in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium high, beat eggs and brown sugar in a large bowl until more than triple in volume and mixture holds a ribbon for several seconds when drizzled over itself, 5-7 min. Beat in vanilla. Toss carrots, coconut, walnuts, raisins, and oil in another medium bowl. Reduce mixer to low. Add flour mixture in 3 additions, alternating with carrot mixture, to egg mixture, beating well after each addition. Divide batter between pans. Bake until lightly browned across top and a tester insterted into the middle comes out clean, and the top springs back when gently poked, 33-36 min. Let cool 10 min. Carefully run knife around edges of pans to release cake, then invert onto a wire rack. Let cool completely.

Frosting:
8 oz cream cheese, room temp
1/2 c (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temp
1 1/4 c gluten free powdered sugar
1/3 c greek yogurt
1 tsp vanilla
pinch kosher salt

Using an electric mixer on medium high speed, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl, scraping down as needed, until very smooth, ~2 min. Reduce mixer to low and add powdered sugar. Beat until combined. Add yogurt, vanilla, and salt and increase speed to medium high. Beat, scraping down occasionally, until light and airy, ~4 min. Chill 10 min if needed to stiffen slightly to a spreadable consistency.

Arrange one cake round domed side down on platter. Cover top and sides with 1/3 of frosting. Top with remaining cake, domed side up. coat top and sides with remaining frosting. Cake can be made 3 days ahead; cover and chill.
