Cast Iron Pad Thai
  --Field Company

Sauce:
2 tbsp fish sauce (or substitute more shoyu for a vegetarian option)
2 tbsp shoyu
3 tbsp brown sugar
2 tbsp Thai Tamarind Paste (or substitute rice vinegar if you can’t find tamarind)
1 tbsp Sriracha (or more to taste)
2 tbsp creamy peanut butter
1 tbsp lime juice

Whisk all ingredients together in a bowl, set aside.

8-10 oz flat rice noodles
2 tbsp + 1 tsp peanut, olive, or sesame oil
8 oz chicken or extra-firm tofu, chopped into small and even cubes
1 red bell pepper, thinly sliced and cut into 1" lengths
2 carrots, shredded
3-4 green onions, chopped
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 c fresh bean sprouts
1 thai red chile, optional
2 eggs, whisked (omit for a vegan version)
2/3 c dry roasted peanuts, chopped

Cook your noodles according to the directions on the package (usually 3-4 min). Rinse under cold water to keep them from sticking/cooking further. Preheat 10" skillet on low for 10 min. Increase heat to medium high and add 1 tbsp of your preferred oil. Add the tofu or chicken. Cook chicken until cooked through (3-5 min) or sear tofu until it is lightly browned on all sides (approx. 2 minutes/side). Remove protein from skillet and set aside. Add another tbsp of oil and allow it to heat up. Add green onion, red pepper, garlic, bean sprouts and carrots to the skillet. Stir frequently for ~3 min or until the veggies are crisp tender. Push veggies to the sides of the pan and add about a teaspoon of oil to the center. Add the beaten eggs, and break them into small pieces with your slotted turner as they cook. Remove skillet from heat. Cast iron has great heat retention, so your pad thai will stay warm even after it’s removed from the burner. Add noodles, sauce, protein and peanuts to the pan. Toss everything to combine. Garnish the top with your preferred extras! Serve straight from your skillet with lime wedges.


Notes: other veggies to try: Napa cabbage, Broccoli, Shallots, Daikon radishes
garnish options: Lime wedges, Chopped cilantro or basil leaves, Chili flakes, Extra bean sprouts, Extra sriracha, Extra green onions, Extra dry roasted peanuts

