Cast Iron Skillet Calzone
  --Cook's Country
  
2 tsp evoo
1 lb sweet or hot italian sausage
4 oz thinly sliced pepperoni, quartered
2 garlic cloves, minced
2x1 lb balls pizza dough, room temp
1 lb mozzarella cheese, shredded (4 c)
8 oz (1 c) whole milk ricotta cheese
2 tbsp chopped fresh basil
1 tsp pepper
1 c low sodium marinara sauce + exrta for serving
1 large egg, lightly beaten with 2 tbsp water
2 tsp toasted sesame seeds

Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heat oven to 450F. Heat 12" cast iron skillet over medium heat for 3 min. Add oil and heat until shimmering. Add sausage and pepperoni and cook, breaking up meat with wooden spoon, until sausage is no longer pink, 5-7 min. Stir in garlic and cook until fragrant, ~30 s. Using slotted spoon, transfer meat mixture to paper towel lined plate. Wipe skillet clean with paper towels. Knead dough balls together on lightly floured surface to create 1 large ball, 8-10 turns. Divide dough into 2/3 and 1/3 balls (22 oz and 10 oz). Press and roll larger piece into 16" round. Keep remaining dough covered with greased plastic wrap. Loosely roll dough around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto now empty skillet, letting excess dough hang ouver edge. Ease dough into skillet by gently lifting edge of dough with your hand while pressing into skillet bottom with your other hand. Sprinkle 2 c cheese over surface of dough. Combine ricotta, basil, pepper, and mixture in bowl. Dollop ricotta mixture over mozzarella and press into even layer. Spread marinara over top, then sprinkle with remaining 2 c mozzarella. Brush overhanging dough with some of egg wash. Press and roll remaining dough piece into 14" circle; loosely roll dough around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto skillet. Trim overhang to 1/2" beyond edge of skillet. Pinch edges of top and bottom crusts firmly together. Tuck overhanging under itself; folded edge should be flush with edge of skillet. Crimp dough with tines of fork. Brush top of calzone with remaining egg wash and sprinkle with sesame seeds. Using paring knife, cut 8x1" vents in top of dough in circular pattern. Transfer skillet to oven and bake until crust is golden brown, ~30 min, rotating halfway through baking. Transfer to wire rack and let cool for 30 min. Using spatula, slide calzone onto cutting board. Slice into wedges and serve with extra marinara.



Notes: Room temp dough is much easier to shape, so pull from fridge 1 hr before you plan to start. Can use homemade dough and marinara.
