Cauliflower Gratin
  --America's Test Kitchen

2 head cauliflower (2 lbs each)
8 tbsp unsalted butter
1/2 c panko bread crumbs
2 oz parmesan cheese, grated (1 c)
salt and pepper
1/2 tsp dry mustard
1/8 tsp nutmeg
pinch cayenne pepper
1 tsp cornstarch dissolved in 1 tsp water
1 tbsp minced fresh chives

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 400F. Pull off outer leaves of 1 head of cauliflower and trimm stem. Using paring knife, cut around core to remove; halve core lengthwise and slice thin crosswise. Slice head into 1/2" thick slabs. cut stems from slabs to create florets that are ~1 1/2" tall; slice stems thing and reserve along with sliced core. Transfer florest to bowl, including any small pieces and set aside. Repeat with remaining head of cauliflower. After trimming should have ~3 c sliced stems and 12 c florets. Combine stems, cores, 2 c florets, 3 c water, and 6 tbsp butter in dutch oven and bring to boil over high heat. Place remaining florets in steamer basket. Once mixture is boiling, place steamer basket in pot, cover, and reduce heat to medium. Steam florets in basked until translucent and stem ends can easily be pierced with paring knife, 10-12 min. Remove steamer basket and drain florets. Re-cover pot, reduce heat to low, and continue to cook stems until very soft, ~10 min. Transfer drained florets to bowl. While cauliflower is cooking, melt remaining 2 tbsp butter in 10" skillet over medium heat. Add panko and cook, stirring frequently, until golden brown, 3-5 min. Transfer to bowl and let cool. Once cool, ad 1/2 c parmesan and toss to combine. Transfer stem mixture and cooking liquid to blender and add 2 tsp salt, 1/2 tsp pepper, mustard, nutmeg, cayenne, and remaining 1/2 c parmesan. Process until smooth and velvety, ~ 1 min. Puree should be pourable, adjust with water as needed. With blender running, add cornstarch slurry. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Pour puree over florets and toss gently to evenly coat. Transfer mixture to 13x9" baking dish and smooth top with spatula. Scatter bread crumb mixture evenly over top. Bake until sauce bubbles around edges 13-15 min. Let stand for 20-25 min. Sprinkle with chives and serve.
To make ahead, refrigerate gratain and bread crumb mixture separately for up to 24 hrs. Assemble and bake, increasing the time by 13-15 min.
