Cha Ca-style snapper

Marinade
1 c whole fat greek yogurt
3 tbsp minced shallot (1 medium shallot)
2 tsp minced garlic (1 clove)
2 tsp minced ginger (1" piece)
1/4 c minced jalapeno (1 small jalapeno)
2 tsp finely grated lemon zest (1 lemon)
3 tbsp fresh lemon juice (1 lemon)
1/4 c roughly chopped fresh dill
3 tbsp canot oil
1 tbsp ground tumeric
1 tbsp fish sauce
1 tsp sugar
1 lb snapper fillets, skin removed and cut into 4 pieces

In a large mixing bowl, combine all the ingredients except the snapper. Add the fish, cover and marinate for 2hrs or overnight. 

Nuoc Mam
1/2 c fish sauce
1/3 c rice wine vinegar
3/4 c sugar
3/4 c water
1 tbsp minced garlic
1 tbsp sambal
1 1/2 tsp minced fresh ginger (3/4" piece)

In a medium bowl, whisk together all the ingredients until the sugar dissolves. Cover and chill. Makes ~ 2 c. Can be made ahead up to 2 weeks in advance.

Pickled red onion
1/4 c warm water
1 1/2 tbsp sugar
1 star anise pod
1/2 c rice wine vinegar
1 c thinly sliced red onion (1/2 small red onion)
pinch kosher salt

In a small bowl, combine the water, sugar, and star anise, and stir to dissolve the sugar. Add the rice wine vinegar, sliced onions and salt. Let sit until the onions turn pink and develop a pickled flavor, about 1 hr.

Serving/garnish
rice noodles
lettuce leaves
cabbage
cilantro
dill
green onion
peanuts
spring roll sheets

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and prheat oven to 400F. Remove the fish from the marinade, leaving a layre of it on the fillets, and transfer them to the prepared baking sheet. Discard leftover marinade. Bake until the fish is cooked through, 8-10 min. Meanwhile crips the spring roll sheets. One sheet at a time, grill or microwave on high until the sheet crisps and puffs, 1-2 min. Break into bite size pieces and set aside.
To assemble: Divide the rice noodles among 4 bowls and lightly toss with some of the nuoc mam. Place the lettuce leaves, cabbage, cilantro, dill, and green onions in 1 large communal bowl or platter. To eat, place a piece of fish into each bowl and garnish with some of the greens and herbs along with the pickled red onions, peanuts, crispy spring roll sheets and additional nuoc mam.
