Chai Cheesecake with Cranberry Compote
  --Sarah Osborn Blue

Crust:
1 c + 3 tbsp graham cracker crumbs
2¼ tbsp milk powder
1 tbsp sugar
½ tsp salt
2½ tbsp unsalted butter
2½ tbsp heavy cream  

Preheat the oven to 325F. Spray an 8" cheesecake pan with nonstick spray and set aside. In a bowl, stir together the graham cracker crumbs, milk powder, sugar and salt. Melt the butter and cream in a small pan over low heat to combine. Pour the butter mixture over the graham cracker mixture and stir until everything is combined. Add to the cheesecake pan and press down into an even layer. Bake for 8 min and let cool while making the filling.

Chai Spice Blend:
1 tbsp ground cardamom
1 tbsp ground allspice
2 tbsp ground cinnamon
1 tbsp ground cloves
1 tbsp ground ginger

Sift all the ingredients together in a bowl and set aside.

Cheesecake:
28 oz cream cheese
¾ c sugar
3 eggs
½ tsp salt
1 tbsp chai spice blend

Lower the heat to 300F. In a stand mixer on high with the paddle attachment, beat the cream cheese until completely smooth. Scrape down the bowl and the paddle multiple times to ensure that there are no lumps in the cream cheese. In a separate bowl, combine the sugar and chai spice blend. This step ensures that the spices will distribute evenly throughout the cheesecake. Turn the mixer down to low speed and add the sugar mixture, beating for ~30 s, until completely combined. Scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl and mix for another 30 s. Add the eggs one at a time, scraping down the sides and bottom of the bowl again, and mix for 30 s. Pour the batter into the prebaked crust. Wrap the bottom of the cheesecake pan first in plastic wrap, then in foil, to prevent the water bath from leaking into the cake. Place the wrapped cheesecake pan inside a roasting pan, and fill the roasting pan halfway with water. Bake the cheesecake in the water bath for 40-50 min, until it doesn't jiggle when you shake the pan. Remove from the oven and cool at room temperature for 10 min, then cool in the refrigerator overnight (or at least 4 hrs).

Compote:
12 oz cranberries
1 orange, zested and juiced
1 c sugar

Combine the cranberries, orange zest, orange juice and sugar in a pot over medium-low heat and bring to a boil, stirring occasionally. Boil for 5-8 min; the cranberries should be broken down. Pour into a heat-safe bowl and let the compote cool completely before topping the cheesecake to serve.
