Cheesy Scallion Pancakes
  --Justine Doiron

Dough:
1 c + 2 tbsp ap flour, 158 g + 1 heaping tbsp (12 g) for kneading
1/2 tsp Diamond Crystal kosher salt
1/2 c boiling water , 115 g
1 tbsp sesame oil

In a medium bowl, whisk together 158 g flour and 1/2 tsp salt. Pour over 115 g boiling water and use a fork to quickly whisk this together into a shaggy dough. Add in 1 tbsp of sesame oil and mix with your hand. Move the dough to a lightly floured surface and knead for 3 min, adding up to 12 g of flour as needed to make a smooth ball. Then put it back in the bowl and set it aside to rest while you prepare the scallion filling.

Filling:
6 oz scallions, thinly sliced
1 tbsp white sesame seeds
1 tsp gochugaru, optional
1/4 c canola oil, 60 g + more for rolling out the dough above
1/4 c ap flour, 35 g
4 oz low moisture mozzarella, grated

To a heat-safe bowl, add the thinly sliced scallions, 1 tbsp sesame seeds, and 1 tsp gochugaru. Add 60 g of canola oil to a small pot. Put it over medium-high heat and heat up for 2-3 min, or until wisps of smoke are coming off the top. It's a small amount of oil so it will happen quickly. Immediately pour this over the scallion mixture (it will sizzle so be careful!). Mix in the 35 g of flour. It will be a bit clumpy, but that's normal. Now, lightly oil a work surface with canola oil. Roll the rested dough into a log, then cut the log into 4 even pieces. Roll each piece of dough into roughly an 11x7" rectangle. Spread 3-4 tbsp of the scallion mixture onto the dough. Sprinkle with 1 oz of cheese. Roll this up the long side of the dough so that the roll is as long as possible. Then twist this log into a tight coil. Place each coil between 2 sheets of wax paper or parchment paper. Let them rest for 3 min before using a rolling pin to gently roll the coil into a pancake that is 1/4" thick. Some filling will pop out, and that's totally fine (and will be delicious). From here you can either freeze the pancakes and griddle them later (there will be no change to the cooking process) or griddle them right away. I find it's easier to handle them when they are cold, so if you can pop the finished pancakes in the freezer while you prep the others, that will help with the frying. Place a 12" cast iron pan over medium heat. Add a drizzle of canola oil. Season the top of each scallion pancake with a liberal sprinkling of salt and fry them for 3-4 min on each side, or until golden. Serve as warm as possible for the ultimate cheese pulls.


Notes: to keep them warm: either keep them in a 325F oven while you finish griddling the others, or quickly reheat them in a toaster oven. Might not need to oil pan to fry, enough oil in the pancake
