Cheese Danish with Mango and Lime

Dough:
5 1/2 c ap flour + more for dusting
1/3 c sugar
4 tsp instant yeast
2 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp ground cardamom
1 c whole milk
1/3 c water
1 tsp vanilla
2 large eggs
2 sticks butter

In a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine the flour, sugar, yeast, salt, and cardamom. Mix until incorporated. With the motor running, add the milk, water, vanilla, and eggs. Mix until a smooth dough comes togehter, 4-5 min. Cover the bowl loosely in plastic and let sit in a warm place until doubled in size, 1 hr. On a heavily floured work surgace beat the butter with a rolling pin into a 6x8" rectangle. Transfer to a parchment lined baking sheet and chill until ready to use.

Filling:
1 c (8oz) cream cheese, softened
1/4 c sugar
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp lime zest
2 eggs, divided
6 tbsp mango preserves

In a medium bowl, stir together the cream cheese, sugar, salt, lime zest, and 1 of the eggs until smooth, then set aside.


On a lightly floured work surface, roll out the dough into a 14x18" rectangle, 1/3" thick. Place the chilled butter block on one half of the dough and fold the other half to enclose the butter completely. Roll the dough into a 12"10" rectangle, then fold it into thirds, like a letter. Continue this process 3 more times for a total of 4 folds. After the final fold, transfer the dough to the fridge and chill for 30 min. Preheat the oven to 400F and line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. On a lightly floured work surface, roll out the dough into a 15" square, 1/3" thick, then cut into 9 squares. Dollop 2 tbsp of the cream cheese mixture in the center of each square, then top with 2 tsp of the mango preserves. Fold the edges of the dough of each danish in toward the filling to make a rounded pastry. Divide the pastries between the 2 sheets. Beat the remaining egg and brush over the dough of each danish. Bake until golden brown and flaky, 20 min. Let cool completely.

Glaze:
1 c confectioners' sugar
2 tbsp lime juice

In a medium bowl, mix all ingredients until smooth. Once the danish are cooled, drizzle over the edges of the danish and serve.
