Portobello, Poblano, pepper Jack Cheese Enchilada Skillet
  --Monique Volz
  
Sauce:
1 tbsp evoo
1/2 medium yellow onion, diced
1 jalapeño, seeded and diced
3 garlic cloves, minced
15 oz can tomato sauce
1/2 c vegetable broth
1/3 c chopped fresh cilantro
1 tsp chili powder
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp dried oregano
1 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp chipotle chili powder

In a large, deep, oven-safe skillet, warm the evoo over medium heat. Once the oil is hot, add the onion and jalapeño and sauté, stirring occasionally, until the onion softens, 3-5 min. Add the garlic and sauté, stirring frequently, until fragrant, ~30 s. Transfer the mixture to a blender or food processor. Add the tomato sauce, broth, cilantro, chili powder, cumin, dried oregano, salt, and chipotle chili powder. Blend on high speed until the sauce is smooth, ~1 min.

Preheat broiler to high

Filling:
1 tbsp evoo
3 portobello mushroom caps, sliced into strips
2 poblano peppers, seeded and cut into thin strips
1 1/2 c fresh corn kernels (from 2 ears)
1/2 medium yellow onion, sliced
1 tsp kosher salt
freshly ground black pepper
8 6" corn tortillas, cut into 1" strips
8 oz shredded pepper Jack cheese (2 c)

In the same skillet, warm the oil over medium heat. Once the oil is hot, add the mushrooms, poblanos, corn, onion, salt, and pepper to taste. Sauté, stirring occasionally, until all of the liquid has evaporated and the mushrooms are golden brown, 8-10 min. Reduce the heat to medium-low and add the enchilada sauce, tortilla strips, and ½ cup of the cheese. Stir again to combine and simmer for a few minutes to integrate the flavors. Sprinkle the remaining cheese over the top of the enchilada mixture. Place the skillet in the oven under the broiler and broil until the cheese melts and is slightly golden brown in places, watching carefully to avoid burning, 2-4 min

Serve:
2 tbsp chopped fresh cilantro
Pickled Red Onions
Plain whole-milk Greek yogurt

Remove from the oven and allow to cool for at least 10 min before serving, then top with cilantro and Pickled Red Onions. Serve warm with a dollop of yogurt.

