Cherry Pistachio Trifle

Pound cake:
Unsalted butter, softened, for greasing
1¾ c ap flour, plus more for dusting
1½ c blueberries
1 c granulated sugar
2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp kosher salt
1 c plain Greek yogurt
½ c olive oil
½ tsp vanilla extract
3 eggs

Preheat the oven to 350°. Grease and flour a 9x5" loaf pan. In a medium bowl, toss the blueberries with the sugar, mashing slightly to release some of the juices. Let them sit at room temperature for 30 min, stirring occasionally, to macerate. Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, whisk together the flour with the baking powder and salt. In a large bowl, whisk together the yogurt, olive oil, vanilla and eggs. Stir in the macerated blueberries, followed by the dry ingredients; mix until a smooth batter forms. Transfer the batter to the prepared loaf pan and bake until golden brown and a cake tester inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean, ~1 hr. Let cool completely, then cut into 1" cubes.

Curd:
1½ c sugar
¾ c freshly squeezed grapefruit juice
1½ tsp cornstarch
½ tsp kosher salt
2 eggs, plus 3 yolks
4 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tsp grapefruit zest

In a small saucepan, whisk together the sugar, grapefruit juice, cornstarch, salt, eggs and egg yolks until smooth, then place over medium heat. Cook, stirring constantly, until thickened, 9-11 min. Remove from the heat and strain, then stir in the butter and grapefruit zest until smooth. Cool over an ice bath. Then chill until firm, 2 hrs.

Cherries:
4 c (1½ lbs) red cherries, stemmed and pitted
¼ c kirsch cherry brandy
¼ c granulated sugar
2 tbsp butter, unsalted
1 tsp ground cardamom
¼ tsp kosher salt
1 tbsp cornstarch

In a medium saucepan, combine all the cherry ingredients, except the cornstarch. Bring to a simmer over medium-high heat and cook until the cherries have softened, 8-10 min. Remove from the heat. In a small bowl, mix the cornstarch with 2 tbsp of juice from the cherry mixture until smooth. Then add that to the pot. Return the saucepan to the stovetop and bring the mixture to a boil. Cook until thickened, 2 min, and remove from the heat to cool over an ice bath.

Pastry Cream:
2 c heavy cream
2 tbsp confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon kosher salt
Grapefruit curd

In a large bowl, combine the cream, confectioner's sugar and salt, and, using an electric hand mixer, whip to stiff peaks. Set 1½ c of the whipped cream aside. Fold the remaining whipped cream into the grapefruit curd until smooth.

Assembly:
Pound cake cubes
Grapefruit pastry cream
1 c blueberries
Stewed cherries
½ c pistachios, roughly chopped
½ c cherries—stemmed, pitted and halved

In a 3-quart trifle bowl, layer 1/3 of the pound cake cubes, followed by 1/3 of the grapefruit pastry cream, ¼ c of the blueberries, 1/3 of the stewed cherries, and 2 tbsp of the pistachios. Repeat this layering 2 more times. Spread the reserved whipped cream over the top layer, then garnish with the remaining ¼ c cup of blueberries, the remaining 2 tbsp of pistachios, and the halved cherries. Serve immediately or refrigerate for up to 4 hr.

Note: can make all the components a day in advance
