Cherries Jubilee Dutch Baby
  --Sohla El-Waylly

Baby:
3 large eggs
1/2 c (60 g) ap flour
1/2 c (113 g) milk, any kind
2 tbsp sugar
1 tsp vanilla extract or paste
1/2 tsp almond extract
1/2 tsp Diamond Crystal kosher salt (or 1/4 tsp fine salt)
3 tbsp butter, cut into pats

In a blender, combine eggs, flour, milk, sugar, vanilla, almond extract, and salt. Blend until just combined, then set aside to rest while the oven heats up. (The batter can also be whisked by hand. You can make this the night before and store it in the fridge. Bring to room temperature and stir well before baking.) Set a heavy 10" cast iron or stainless steel skillet in the center of the oven and heat to 425F. Remove the skillet from the oven and add the pats of butter. Put in the oven to melt and brown, keeping an eye on it so the butter doesn’t burn, under 1 min. Once the butter has melted, move quickly: Remove the pan from the oven and pour in the batter. Return the skillet to the oven and bake until puffed, browned in the center, and charred around the edges, ~20 min. 

Whip:
1/2 c (75 g) whole milk strained yogurt, like Greek, Skyr, or labne
1/4 c (55 g) heavy whipping cream
1 tbsp honey
1 lemon

In a medium bowl, add the yogurt, cream, and honey. Use a microplane grater to finely grate in the lemon zest, then squeeze in 1 tbsp of juice. Whip with a whisk or handmixer until thick. (You can make this the night before and store it in the fridge.)
  
Cherries:
2 c frozen pitted sweet cherries
3 tbsp honey
3 tbsp brandy (or not!)
Finely ground freeze-dried raspberries (also optional)

Combine the cherries, honey, and 2 tbsp water in a small saucepan. Cover and cook over medium-high heat until bubbling, thawed, and syrupy, ~5 min. Turn off the burner and add the brandy. Return to medium-high heat and use a match to ignite the cherries. Let the fire burn down naturally. (Or skip the flambe: Simmer the mixture until syrupy, and finish it with a wee squeeze of citrus.) Simmer until syrupy, ~2 min.

As soon as the pancake is out of the oven, top with the cherries and yogurt whip. To make it extra fancy, dust over ground freeze-dried raspberries.



  
