Chicken Wontons with Chili Sauce
  --Hsiao-Ching Chou

Chili Oil:
1/2 c vegetable oil
1 medium shallot, finely minced
2 tsp freshly cracked sichuan peppercorns
1-2 tsp red pepper flakes
1-2 tsp chinese or korean chili powder

In a small pan over low heat, cobine all ingredients, adding chili powder to taste, cook for 5 min or until the oil starts to look red from the chili. Remove the pan from the heat, then pour into a small, heatproof bowl and let cool to room temp before storing in an airtight jar.

Chili Sauce
2 tbsp chili bean sauce
1 stalk green onion, very finely minced
2 tsp chili oil
1 tsp finely minced garlic
1 tsp sugar
1/2 tsp sesame oil
1/2 tsp freshly ground sichuan peppercorn
1/2 c shoyu
1 tbsp balsamic vinegar

In a small bowl, combine the bean sauce, onion, chili oil, garlic, sugar, sesame oil, and peppercorn. Stir well. Add the shoyu and balsamic vinegar and stir to combine. Can keep this in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.

Wontons:
1 lb ground chicken
2 stalks green onions, finely chopped
1 tbsp shoyu
1/2 tsp sesame oil
1/8 tsp white pepper
1 package wonton wrappers
chili sauce

In a medium bowl, mix the chicken, onions, shoyu, oil, and pepper. Put 1/4 c water in a small bowl. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, set aside. Place just under 1 tsp of filling at the center of a wonton wrapper (use judgement to not overfill). Dip finger into the water and moisten all 4 edges. Fold the wrapper in half over the filling, line up the edges and press down to flatten and seal. You now have a rectangle packet. Pick up the filled rectangle and hold it so that the edge that contains the filling is at the bottom. Moisten the lower left corner of the rectangle. Using both hands, wrap the lower edges of the wonton into a small circle until they meet, and adhere the bottom right corner of the rectangle to the moistened left corner. Repeat with the remaining filling and wonton skins. Place the wontons on the prepared baking sheet. (If you plan on freezing the wontons for later use, place the baking sheet in the freezer for about 1 hour before transferring the wontons to a ziplock bag. You can cook them frozen. Do not defrost or you will get a soggy mess.) Bring 3 qts water to boil in an 8 qt pot. Add 8 wontons per person and boil for 4-5 min, or until wontons become opaque and the filling is cooked through. Drain the wontons and transfer them to bowls to serve. Drizzle 2-3 tbsp of chili sauce, or more to taste, over each bowl and serve.
