Chicken Satay
  --Cook's Country
  
Sauce:
1/3 c peanut butter
1/3 c coconut milk
3 tbsp lime juice
2 scallions, sliced thin
2 tbsp packed brown sugar
2 tbsp chopped fresh cilantro
1 tbsp sriracha sauce
1 tbsp fish sauce
1 garlic clove, minced
1/2 tsp curry powder

Process all ingredients in food processor until smooth, ~1 min. Transfer to serving bowl and set aside. Can be made and refrigerated for up to 3 days, let stand at room temp for 30 min prior to serving.

Satay:
1/3 c coconut milk
4 scallions, sliced thin
1/4 c packed brown sugar
1/4 c chopped fresh cilantro
3 tbsp fish sauce
2 tbsp sriracha sauce
2 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 tsp curry powder
4x(6-8 oz) boneless, skinless, chicken breasts trimmed
6-8 10" wooden skewers soaked in water for at least 30 min

Process coconut milk, scallions, sugar, cilantro, fish sauce, sriracha, garlic, and curry powder to coarse puree, ~30 s. Transfer marinade to bowl. Working with 1 breast at a time, place breast on cutting board with tapered end facing edge of counter. Slice breast lengthwise diagonally on bias into 1/4" thick strips. Transfer chicken to bowl with marinade. Cover bowl and refrigerate chicken for at least 1 hr or up to 12 hrs. Thread chicken strips tightly onto skewers, using 5-6 strips per skewer and leaving no more than 3/4" of skewer exposed on either end. 
For charcoal grill: Open bottom vent completely. Light large chimney starter filled with charcoal briquettes (6 qt). When top coals are partially covered with ash, pour evenly over half of grill. Set cooking grate in place, cover, and open lid vent completely. Heat grill until hot, ~5 min
For gas grill: Turn all burners to high, cover, and heat grill until hot, ~15 min. Leave all burners on high.
Clean and oil cooking grate. Arrange skewers on grill (over coals if using charcoal) and cook (covered if using gas) until chicken is charred around edges and just cooked through, 3-5 min per side. Transfer to platter. Serve with peanut sauce.


Notes: can use light or dark brown sugar.
