Chicken and Poblano Tamales

Wrappers:
2 dozen dried corn husks
10 c boiling water for soaking

In a large bowl, cover the corn husks with the boiling water, using a small plate to completely submerge the husks. Soak until soft and pliable ~ 1hr.

Filling:
4 whole chicken legs, skin on and bone in (~2 1/2 lbs)
1 small white onion, halved
2 smashed garlic cloves
2 tbsp kosher salt divided + more for taste
1/4 tsp whole black peppercorns
handful cilantro sprigs
1 bay leaf
4 medium poblano peppers (~ 1/2 lb)
1/2 c tomatillo salsa + more for serving

In a large saucepan, combine the chicken legs, onion, garlic, 5 tsp salt, black peppercorns, cilantro, and bay leaf. Cover with water by 1" and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low and simmer, uncovered, until cooked through, 20-25 min. While the chicken is cooking, roast the poblanos. Adjust an over rack to the upper position and turn on the broiler. Arrange the poblanos on a rimmed baking sheet lined with foil. Broil the chiles, flipping once, until they are blistered and charred, 10-12 min. Transfer to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let sit for 10min. Peel, seed, and slice into 1/2" strips, season with salt and set aside. When the chicken is cooked through, remove it and strain the broth. When the meat is cool enough to handle, shred and season with salt to taste. You should have 2 1/2-3 c of shredded chicken. Pour enough broth over the chicken to keep it from drying out. Set aside 2 c of broth for the tamale dough and keep warm. Store the remaining broth for another use. The filling can be made up to 2 days in advance.

Dough:
3 c masa harina
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp kosher salt + more to taste
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper
2/3 c ( 5 1/4 oz) lard, cut into 1/2" pieces at room temp
2 c hot chicken broth

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, combine the masa harina, baking powder, salt, and cayenne pepper. Begin mixing on medium speed and, one by one, drop the lard pieces into the masa harina. Beat until fully incorporated, about 1 min. Reduce mixer speed to low and, in a slow and steady stream, add 1 3/ c of the broth. Increase the mixer to medium speed and continue to beat for 2 min. Stop the mixer and squeeze some dough with your hands to check consistency. The masa should feel like play-doh. If the dough feels very wet, add more masa; if crumbly and dry, add more broth. Transfer the dough to a clean surface and cover with a damp kitchen towl.

Assembling:
Drain husks and pat dry to remove excess water. Working in batches of 6, with the short tapered end of the husks facing away from you, spread 1/4 c of the masa dough in the center of each husk into an 1/8" thick rectangle, leaving 1/2" between the masa and the edges of the husk. Spread 1 tsp of tomatillo salsa in each center and top with 1 tbsp of chicken and a couple of poblano strips. To package each tamale, fold the two long sides of the husk inward with one overlapping the other enclosing the masa dough around the filling. Fold down the top tapered end of the husk, then pull the bottom end up, creating a small package. Using kitchen twine, tie the tamales around the center so that they remain closed. To cook the tamales, fill a large, wide saucepan with 2" of water and set a steamer basket inside. Line the steamer and sides of the saucepan with corn husks. Place the saucepan over medium-high heat and bring the water to a simmer. Place the assembled tamales inside the steamer basket, folded side down, stacking if need be. Reduce heat to low, cover and steam, adding water to the pan as needed. Cook until the masa filling pulls away from the husk, 1-1 1/4 hr. Remove from heat and let the tamales rest for 5 min before serving with tomatillo salsa on the side. Tamales can be individually wrapped in plastic and frozen for up to 1 month.
