Chicken Vesuvio
  --America's Test Kitchen

8 bone in chicken thighs (5-7 oz) trimmed
kosher salt and pepper
1 1/2 lb yukon gold potatoes, 2-3" in diameter, halved crosswise
2 tbsp vegetable oil
14 garlic cloves, peeled; 2 whole, 12 halved lengthwise
1 tbsp lemon juice
1 1/2 tsp dried oregano
1/2 tsp dried thyme
1 1/2 c dry white wine
2 tbsp minced fresh parsley

Adjust oven rack to upper middle position and heat oven to 450F. Pat chicken dry with paper towels and sprinkle on both sides with 1 1/2 tsp salt and 1/2 tsp pepper. Toss potatoes with 1 tbsp oil and 1 tsp salt. Mince 2 whole garlic cloves and immediately combine with lemon juice in small bowl; set aside. Heat remaining 1 tbsp oil in large roasting pan over medium high heat until shimmering. Place chicken, skin side down, in single layer in pan and cook, without moving it, until chicken has rendered ~2 tbsp of fat, 2-3 min. Place potatoes cut side down in chicken fat, arranging so that cut sides are in complete contact with surcface of pan. Sprinkle chicken and potatoes with oregano and thyme. Continue to cook until chicken and potatoes are deeply browned and crisp, 8-12 min longer, moving chicken and potatoes to ensure even browning and flipping pieces when fully browned. When all pieces have been flipped, tuck halved garlic cloves among chicken and potatoes. Remove pan from heat and pour wine into pan, do not pour over chicken or potatoes. Transfer pan to oven and roast until potatoes are tender when pierced with knife and chicken registers 185-190F, 15-20 min. Transfer chicken and potatoes to deep platter, browned sides up. Place pan over medium heat and stir to incorporate any browned bits. Using slotted pspoon, transfer garlic cloves to cutting board. Chop coarse, then mash to smooth paste with side of knife. Whisk garlic paste into sauce. Continue to cook until sauce coats back of spoon, 3-5 min longer. Remove from heat and whisk in reserved lemon juice mixture and 1 tbsp parsley. Pour sauce around chicken and potatoes. Sprinkle with remaining 1 tbsp parsley and serve.
