Chicken Parmesan

Sauce:
1/4 c olive oil
1 medium onion, finely chopped
6 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
pinch crushed red pepper flakes
28oz can whole peeled san marsano tomatoes, crushed by hand
1 tbsp sherry vinegar
2 tsp sugar
4" parmesan rind
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper to taste

In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion, garlic, and crushed red pepper flakes, and cook, stirring frequently, until softened, 10-12 min. Add the tomatoes, basil, vinegar, sugar, and parmesan rind, and bring to a simmer. Lower the heat to medium low and cook, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened, ~25 min. Discard the parmesan rind and, using an immersion blender, blend the sauce until slightly smooth while retaining some texture. Season with salt and pepper to taste.

Chicken:
2 c dry panko
1/2 c grated parmesan cheese, divided
2 tbsp dried oregano
1/2 c flour
3 eggs, beaten
4 medium (2lbs) chicken breasts
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
tomato sauce (see above)
1/3 c canola oil
8 oz fresh mozzarella, thinly sliced
thinly sliced basil leaves, for garnish

In a small bowl, whisk together the panko with 1/4 c of the grated parmesan and the dried oregano. Transfer to a shallow dish, such as a pie plate. Transfer the flour and the beaten eggs to shallow dishes as well, then line up the 3 dishes next to each other in order of flour, eggs, and bread crumbs. Season the chicken breasts with salt and pepper. One by one, dredge the chicken breasts in flour, egg, and panko, making sure to completely coat each breast. Place on a plate until ready to fry. Preheat oven to 375F and spread half of the tomato sauce in a 9x13" baking dish, then set aside. In a 12" skillet, heat the canola oil over medium high heat. Cook the chicken breasts, turning once, until golden brown, 5 min per side. Transfer the chicken to the prepared pan, then nestle them into the tomato sauce. Pour the remaining half of the sauce over the middle of each breast, making sure not to completely cover all of the breasts with tomato sauce. Layer the mozzarella and sprinkle the remaining parmesan on top. Bake until the chicken reaches an internal temp of 165F, 25-30 min. Turn the oven to broil and bake until the cheese is bubbling and golden brown, 2-3 min. Garnish with basil and serve.
