Chicken and Ricotta Dumpling Soup

Dumplings:
1½ c ricotta
½ c mascarpone cheese
½ c Parmesan, finely grated
½ tsp salt
3 c ap flour, divided

In a medium bowl, combine all the ingredients, except the flour, until smooth, then transfer to a piping bag. Spread 1½ c of the flour evenly onto a parchment-lined sheet pan. Pipe the cheese mixture into 12 golf ball-sized dumplings, 1½" in diameter, over the flour. Roll the dumplings in the flour until fully coated and cover with the remaining 1½ c of flour.  Wrap the sheet pan in plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. The next day, shake the ricotta dumplings gently, one by one, in a fine-mesh sieve to remove any excess flour. Reserve for later.

Broth:
3-4 lb chicken, rinsed and dried
½ onion, halved
½ medium carrot, halved
1 celery stalk
1 thyme sprig
1 garlic clove
½ tsp black peppercorns
¼ tsp coriander seeds
⅛ tsp crushed red pepper flakes
About 14 c water

Preheat oven to 400F. Break down the chicken: Remove the breasts, dice and reserve for later, then separate the drumsticks and thighs. Roast the bones, drumsticks and thighs until golden brown, 45 min. In a heavy-bottomed stockpot, add the roast chicken and the remaining broth ingredients, and cover completely with water. Bring the stock up to a boil, reduce to a simmer and cook for 1½ hrs. Strain through a fine-mesh strainer and reserve the liquid.

Soup:
1 tbsp olive oil
2 leeks, green stems removed, rinsed and diced
Chicken broth
Chicken breast
Ricotta dumplings
2" piece ginger, minced
Dill sprigs, for garnish

Using the same pot, heat the olive oil and sweat the leeks until translucent, 6-min. Add the chicken broth and bring to a boil; reduce the heat to a simmer, add the diced chicken breast and cook until it reaches an internal temperature of 165F, 10-12 min. Remove the chicken from the pot and set aside. Add the ricotta dumplings to the broth and cook until tender, 10 min. Add the diced chicken back to the pot and stir. Ladle the soup into a bowl, garnish with a sprinkle of ginger and a dill sprig, then serve.


Notes: Make dumplings and stock night before
