Chicken Pot Pie

Crust:
2 tbsp white distilled vinegar
2 tbsp vodka
1/3 c ice water
ice for chilling
2 1/2 c ap flour + more for dusting
1/4 c grated parmesan
1 tbsp sugar
1 tbsp thyme leaves, roughly chopped
1 tbsp finely chopped sage
1 tsp kosher salt
4 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 c shortening, chilled and cut into 1/2" pieces
1/2 c (1 stick) unsalted butter, chilled and cut into 1/2" pieces
1 egg, beaten

In a liquid measuring cup, combine the vinegar, vodka, and water. Fill with ice and chill until ready to use. In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, parmesan, sugar, thyme, sage, salt, and garlic. Add the shortening and use a pastry cutter to cut the fat into the flour, creating cornmeal size pieces. Add the butter and cut until the flour until the mixture resembles a coarse meal with a few pea sized butter pieces. Pour 1/4 c of the liquid over the flour and stir with a fork. Add another 3-6 tbsp of liquid and, with your fingertips, briefly mix into a shaggy dough. Divide the dough in half. Gather each half in a loose ball and wrap in plastic wrap, tuck and seal into a smooth 4" disk. Chill in the fridge for 1 hr.

Filling:
4 tbsp unsalted butter
8 medium (4 oz) cremini mushrooms, stemmed and thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 yellow onion, finely chopped
1 small (8 oz) russet potato, cut into 1/2" pieces
2 medium carrots, peeled and cut into 1/2" pieces
1 celery stalk, cut into 1/2" pieces
1/3 c ap flour
2 tbsp sherry
1 c chicken stock
1 c whole milk
6 medium (1 1/4 lbs) boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 1" pieces
1 c frozen peas, thawed
2 tbsp chopped parsley
1 tbsp chopped sage
1 tsp lemon zest
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper to taste

In a 6 quart dutch oven, melt the butter over medium high heat. Add the mushrooms, garlic, and onion, and cook, stirring often, until lightly caramelized, 6-8 min. Stir in the potato, carrots, and celery, then sprinkle with the flour, stirring to prevent any lumps. Slowly pour in the sherry, chicken stock, and milk, stirring constantly until incorporated. Stir in the chicken and bring to a simmer. Cook, stirring constantly, until the chicken is cooked through, the vegetables are tender, and the sauce has thickened, 18-20 min. Remove from the heat and stir in the remaining ingredients, then let cool.

On a lightly floured work surface, roll out 1 disk of dough into a 12" circle. Transfer to fit a 9" pie tin, then add the filling, smoothing the top with a spatula. Brush the edges of the dough with some of the beated egg. Roll out the other disk into a 12" circle and place over the pie to seal. Using scissors, trim the dough so it has a 1/2" overhang off the pie tin. Fold the dough over itself to tuck the edges, then crimp. Brush the entire top surface with the remaining egg, then make 6 slits into the pie to release any air while baking. Place the pie on a baking sheet and bake, rotating halfway through, until golden brown, 50-60 min. Remove from the oven and let cool 20 min before serving.
