Chicken Ruby Curry
  --Dishoom

Marinade:
10g chopped fresh ginger
20g chopped garlic
5g fine sea salt
1 tsp deggi mirch chilli powder
1 1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp garam masala
2 tsp lime juice
2 tsp vegetable oil
75g full-fat greek yoghurt

Blitz all the ingredients to a smooth paste, then transfer to a bowl. Cut the chicken into 4cm chunks, add to the marinade and turn to coat. Cover and leave to marinate in the fridge for 6-24 hr.

Mahkini:
35g garlic (7–8 cloves)
175ml vegetable oil
20g fresh root ginger
800g chopped tomatoes (fresh or good-quality tinned)
2 bay leaves
6 green cardamom pods
2 black cardamom pods
2 cinnamon sticks
2 tsp fine sea salt
1 1/2 tsp deggi mirch chilli powder
30g butter
1 tsp garam masala
20g granulated sugar
1 tbsp runny honey
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp kasoori methi powder, crushed to a powder between your fingers
1/2 tsp fresh dill fronds
80ml double cream

Peel and finely dice 15g of the garlic. Warm a large saucepan over a medium-high heat and add the oil. Toss in the chopped garlic and fry until light golden brown and slightly crisp ~7-8 min. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper. Grate the remaining garlic and the ginger to a fine paste on a microplane (or grind in a mortar). Using a blender, blitz the chopped tomatoes to a fine consistency. Put the saucepan containing the oil back on a medium-high heat and add the bay leaves, green and black cardamom pods, and the cinnamon sticks. Let them crackle for 1 min, stirring regularly, then turn down the heat and add the garlic and ginger paste. Cook for 5 min, allowing the paste to brown but not burn. Add the tomatoes, salt and chilli powder to the pan. Bring to a rapid simmer and cook until reduced by half, stirring regularly so it doesn’t catch – this should take ~30 min. Add the butter and simmer for a further 5 min. Add the garam masala, sugar, honey, cumin, crisp garlic, kasoori methi powder and dill fronds, and cook for a further 15 min. Add the cream and simmer gently for 5 min. The sauce is now ready to use.

Chicken:
700g skinless, boneless chicken thighs
20g unsalted butter, melted
50ml double cream

Heat the grill to medium-high. Put the marinated chicken on a rack in the grill pan, brush with the melted butter and grill for eight to 10 minutes, until cooked through and nicely charred.

Garnish:
Ginger matchsticks
Coriander leaves, chopped
1 tbsp pomegranate seeds

To finish, warm a large saucepan over a medium-low heat. Add the makhani sauce, cream and grilled chicken, and simmer very gently for 10 minutes. Serve the curry garnished with ginger matchsticks, chopped coriander and pomegranate seeds, with a bowl of steamed rice on the side.



Notes: Kasoori methi is sun-dried fenugreek* leaves. Can sub  chili powder for deggi mirch chilli powder, depending on how hot you like it. Can sub sugar or agave syrup for the honey. 
