Chicken Enchiladas with Salsa Verde

Salsa Verde:

4 large poblano chiles
2 1/2 lbs tomatillos, husks removed and rinsed
1 medium yellow onion, cut into 1/2" rounds
3 garlic cloves roughly chopped
2 serrano chiles, stemmed and roughly chopped
1/2 c roughly chopped cilantro
1/2 tsp cumin seeds, toasted and ground
kosher salt to taste

Position the oven rack to the upper level and turn on the broiler. Line a rimmed baking sheet with foil. Place the poblanos, tomatillos, and onion rounds onto the baking sheet. Broil, flipping once, until the chiles, onions, and tomatillos begin to burst, 8-10 min. Remove from heat. Place the poblanos in a bowl and cover them with plastic wrap; let them sit for 10-15 min to steam. Stem, peel, and seed the poblanos. In a food processor, combine the cooked poblanos, tomatillos, onion, garlic, serrano chiles, cilantro, and cumin. Season with salt and pulse until a rough sauce has formed. Makes 4 1/2 c. Set 1 c aside for the filling and pour the rest into a sauce pan to keep warm over low heat.

Filling:

1 1/2 lbs boneless, skinless chicken thighs
1 medium yellow onion, halved
1 garlic head, split in half
1 tsp kosher salt + more to taste
4 c chicken stock (or water)
1 c salsa verde
1/4 c heavy cream
2 oz (1 1/2 c) gratedd monterey jack cheese

In a medium saucepan, add the chicken, onion, garlic, and salt. Cover with the chicken stock and bring to a boil, then reduce heat to low and simmer, covered, until the chicken is cooked through, 20-25 min. Remove the chicken and let cool. When the chicken is cool enough to handle, shred it until you have 3 c. Set aside. In a mixing bowl, combine the reserved salsa with the heavy cream and monterey jack cheese. Add the shredded chicken, then season with salt and toss to coat.

Enchiladas

3/4 c canola oil
12x6" corn tortillas

Preheat oven to 375F. In a 9"x13" baking dish, spread a cup of the warm salsa on the bottom in an even layer. In a medium skillet over medium-high heat, add the canola oil. Fry 1 tortilla at a time, flipping once until pliable, 5-10 s. Using tongs, remove the tortilla and allow the excess oil to drip off before dipping the tortilla into the warm salsa. Fill the tortilla with 2 tbsp of the filling. Roll the tortilla into a cylinder and transfer to the baking dish, seam side down. Repeat with the remaining tortillas and filling. Pour the remaining salsa over the enchiladas. Cover with foil and bake for 10-15 min. Remove the foil and bake for another 10 min.

For garnishing & extra points:

1 small red onion, sliced very thinly
3 tbsp red wine vinegar
kosher salt to taste
2 oz (2 c) crumbled cotija cheese
1/4 c crema or sour cream
1 c roughly chopped cilantro
3 thinly sliced radishes

In a small bowl, combine the red onions and red wine vinegar. Season with salt and allow to macerate for 10-15 min. Drain and set aside. Remove the enchiladas and top with Cotija cheese, crema, cilantro, radishes, and the pickled red onions.
