Chili Verde Con Cerdo
  --America's Test Kitchen

3 1/2-4 lb boneless pork butt roast, trimmed and cut into 1 1/2" pieces, trimmings reserved
1 tbsp + 1 tsp kosher salt, divided
1 c water
1 1/2 lb tomatillos, husks and stems removed, rinsed well and dried
5 poblano chiles, stemmed, halved, and seeded
1 large onion, cut into 8 wedges through root end
5 garlic cloves, unpeeled
1 jalapeño chile, stemmed and halved
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tsp dried oregano
1 tsp ground cumin
1/8 tsp ground cinnamon
pinch ground cloves
2 bay leaves
2 tsp sugar
1 tsp pepper
1/2 c minced fresh cilantro + extra for serving
lime wedges

Toss pork pieces with 1 tbsp salt in large bowl. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hr. Meanwhile, chop pork trimmings coarse. Transfer to Dutch oven. Add water and bring to simmer over high heat. Cook, adjusting heat to maintain vigorous simmer and stirring occasionally, until all liquid evaporates and trimmings begin to sizzle, ~12 min. Continue to cook, stirring frequently, until dark fond forms on bottom of pot and trimmings have browned and crisped, about 6 minutes longer. Using slotted spoon, discard trimmings. Pour off all but 2 tbsp fat; set aside pot. Adjust 1 oven rack to lower-middle position and second rack 6" from broiler element and heat broiler. Line rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. Place tomatillos, poblanos, onion, garlic, and jalapeño on prepared sheet and drizzle with oil. Arrange chiles skin side up. Broil until chile skins are blackened and vegetables begin to soften, 10-13 min, rotating sheet halfway through broiling. Transfer poblanos, jalapeño, and garlic to cutting board. Turn off broiler and heat oven to 325F. Transfer tomatillos, onion, and any accumulated juices to food processor. When poblanos, jalapeño, and garlic are cool enough to handle, remove and discard skins (it's OK if some small bits of chile skin remain). Remove seeds from jalapeño and reserve. Add poblanos, jalapeño, and garlic to processor. Pulse until mixture is roughly pureed, ~10 pulses, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. If spicier chili is desired, add reserved jalapeño seeds and pulse 3 times. Heat reserved fat in Dutch oven over medium heat until just shimmering. Add oregano, cumin, cinnamon, and cloves and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, ~30 s. Stir in tomatillo mixture, bay leaves, sugar, pepper, and remaining 1 tsp salt, scraping up any fond. Stir in pork and bring to simmer. Cover, transfer to oven, and cook until pork is tender, ~1 1/2 hr, stirring halfway through cooking. Remove pot from oven and let sit, covered, for 10 min. Discard bay leaves. Using heatproof rubber spatula, scrape browned bits from sides of pot. Stir in any fat that has risen to top of chili. Stir in cilantro; season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve, passing lime wedges and extra cilantro separately.


Notes: if jalapeño is <3" might want to use 2. If fresh tomatillos are unavailable, substitute 3x11oz cans of tomatillos, drained, rinsed, and patted dry; broil as directed.
