Chinese Dry Pot

Spice Oil:
1 c vegetable oil
2 tbsp sichuan peppercorns
1 1/2 tbsp cumin seeds
2 tsp black cardamom, crushed
2 tsp fennel seeds
2 tsp allspice
1/2 tsp ground nutmeg
1/2 tsp cloves
1/2 tsp green cardamom
3 garlic cloves, smashed
3 star anise
3 bay leaves
3 strips orange zest
1 scallion, roughly chopped
2" piece ginger, roughly chopped

In a medium saucepan, combine all the ingredients over medium high heat. Once the oil comes to a simmer, reduce the heat and allow to cook until the liquid has evaporated, 30 min. Turn off the heat and allow the oil to completely cool, then strain the oil, discarding the solids.

Chile Paste
3/4 c (2oz) red thai chile peppers
3 tbsp water
1 tbsp salt
4 garlic cloves
1/2" piece ginger
pinch freshly ground white pepper

In a food processor, combine the all the ingredients and puree until smooth. Transfer to a nonstick skillet over medium heat and ocok for 10 min.

Dry Pot:
1 lb (12) chicken wings
4 oz glass noodles
1 c spice oil
8 oz (1 fillet) tilapia, cut into 2" pieces
8 oz (6 small) prawns
1 tbsp chile paste
7 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
4 scallions, thinly sliced
2 red thai chile peppers
1" piece ginger, peeled and thinly sliced
1 lb thinly sliced boneless short ribs
6 shiitake mushrooms, stemmed and quartered
4 bok choy, roughly chopped
1/2 small napa cabbage, roughly shredded
cilantro leaves for garnish

Bring a large pot of water to a boil and blanch the chicken wings until cooked, 4-5 min. Remove the wings with a slotted spoon and transfer to a plate. Add glass noodles to the pot and cook until tender, 8-10 min. Drain and transfer the noodles to a bowl. In a large qok, heat the spice oil over medium high heat and line a plate with paper towels. Fry the tilapia and prawns for 3 min, then remove and transfer to the prepared plate. To the wok add the chile paste, garlic, scallions, chiles, and ginger, and sweat, stirring ocnstantly until aromatic, 1 min. Add the beef and cook until golden and tender, 2-3 min. Add the blanched chicken wings and fry until golden, 1-2 min. Stir in the mushrooms, bok choy, and cabbage, and cook until tender, 3 min. Add the reserved glass noodles, fried tilapia and prawns, tossing to incorporate and warm through, 1 min. Remove from the heat and transfer to a large serving bowl. Garnish with cilantro and serve with steamed rice.
