Beef Chili with Pancetta, Ancho, and Chocolate

2 ancho chiles, stemmed, seeded, and crumbled
1/4 lb pancetta, finely chopped (~1/2c)
2 tbsp oil
2 lbs ground beef chuck
kosher salt to taste
2 large yellow onions, finely chopped (~3c)
1 green bell pepper, finely chopped (~1 1/4c)
4 garlic cloves, minced (2 tbsp)
3 tbsp red chile powder
2 tsp dried oregano
1 tsp freshly cracked black pepper
1/2 tsp caynne pepper
1 bay leaf
1/4 c tomato paste
2 tsp dark brown sugar
12 oz bottle dark beer (ex. negro modelo)
2x15 oz cans pinto beans, drained
14 oz can crushed tomatoes
2 oz unsweetened chocolate, roughly chopped
1 tbsp cider vinegar
sliced avocado, cilantro, pickled jalapenos, grated cheese, diced white onion, lime slices, and sour cream for serving

Place dried chiles in a bowl and pour 1 c boiling water over them. Let soak for 10 min. Transfer to a blender and puree until smooth; set aside. In a large heavy bottomed 6 quart pot or dutch oven over medium high heat. add the pancetta and cook, stirring often, until the fat has rendered and the pancetta is crips, 4-6 min. Remove the pancetta and transfer to a bowl. Add the oil and increase the heat to high. Working in 2 batches, brown the beef, creaking it up using a wooden spoon, 2-3 min per batch. Remove the meat using a slotted spoon and transfer to the bowl with the pancetta. Reduce the heat to medium high. Add the onions and pepper to the pot. Season with salt and cook, stirring often, until soft, 6-8 min. Add the garlic, chile powder, oregano, black pepper, cayenne, and bay leaf, and cook for 2-3 min, until the pot is very fragrant from the spices. Add the tomato paste and reserved meat and pancetta and cook for an additional 10 min. Add the reserved ancho chile puree, brown sugar, beer, beans, crushed tomatoes, and chocolate, and simmer over medium low heat for 1 hr 15 min - 1.5 hrs, or until the flavors have melded together. Stir in the vinegar. Taste and adjust the seasoning as necessary. Chili can be made 2 days ahead, rewarm on low heat.
