Chocolate Hazelnut Tart
  --Cook's Illustrated

Dough:
1 c confectioners' sugar
1/2 c blanched hazelnuts, toasted
1/4 tsp kosher salt
1 large egg yolk
2 tsp heavy cream
4 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 8 pieces and chilled
3/4 c + 2 tbsp (4 3/8 oz) ap flour

Process sugar, hazelnuts, and salt in food processor until fine and powdery, ~1 min. Measure out 2/3 c + 2 tbsp sugar mixture and set aside. Whisk egg yolk and cream together in small bowl and set aside. Add butter to remaining sugar mixture in food processor and process until smooth and creamy, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, ~1 min. Add flour and process until mixture forms cohesive dough, ~30 s. Transfer dough to counter and briefly knead until smooth. Roll dough between 2 large sheets of parchment paper into 12" round. Transfer dough, still between parchment, to baking sheet and freeze until cold and stiff, ~15 min (or pop in fridge for 30 min). Transfer dough to counter, discard top sheet of parchment, and lightly dust dough with flour. When dough is slightly pliable, 1-3 min, eas dough over rolling pin and roll it up loosely, peeling away bottom sheet of parchment. Unroll dough on top of tart pan and ease dough into pan by gently lifting edge of dough with your hand while pressing into corners with your other hand. Gently press rough into fluted sides of pan, forming distinct seam along pan circumference. Run rolling pin over top to remove excess dough. Place dough-lined pan on baking sheet, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 30 min or up to 3 days. (can be wrapped tightly and frozen up to 1 month). Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat to 325F/160C. Remove dough from refrigerator, and using skewer, poke 30 small holes, evenly spaced, in dough bottom. Bake tart shell on baking sheet until edges just begin to brown, 20-25 min, rotating pan halfway through. Remove tart shell from oven and let cool while preparing filling.

Filling:
2 c + 1/2 c + 1 tbsp water, divided
4 c ice cubes
5 1/3 oz bittersweet chocolate (70% or higher) chopped
3 tbsp + 1 tsp granulated sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt

Combine 2 c water and ice cubes in large bowl to make ice bath. Place chocolate, 1/2 c + 1 tbsp water, sugar, and salt in metal or grlass bowl over saucepan of simmering water. Cook, stirring frequently with rubber spatula, until chocolate is fully melted and smooth, ~5 min. Transfer bowl to ice bath and chill, stirring constantly, until mixture is slightly thickened and registers 75-80F/24-27C, 30-60 s. Remove bowl from ice bath and continue to stir 30 s longer. Transfer filling to cooled tart shell and tap baking sheet lightly on counter to release air bubbles; refrigerate tart until set, ~1 hr. Can be wrapped in plastic wrap and refrigerated for up to 24 hrs.

Whipped Cream:
1 c heavy cream
1/4 tsp + 1/4 tsp kosher salt, divided
1/4 c blanched hazelnuts, toasted and chopped

In bowl of stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment, whip cream and 1/4 tsp salt on high speed until frothy and slightly thickened. Add 2/3 c reserved sugar mixture and whip on high speed until stiff peaks form. Remove tart from refrigerator. Remove outer metal ring, slide thing metal spatula between tart and pan bottom, and carefully slide tart onto serving platter. Spread whipped cream evenly over chocolate layer. Using fine mesh strainer, dust tart with remaining 2 tbsp reserved sugar mixture. Sprinkle with hazelnuts and 1/4 tsp salt, cut into wedges and serve.
