Chocolate Habanero Cake with Chocolate Avocado Buttercream

Cake:
2 c ap flour
2 c sugar
3/4 c unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 tbsp finely ground coffee
1 tbsp ground cinnamon
1/2 tsp ground allspice
1/2 tsp ancho chile powder
1/2 tsp chipotle chile powder
pinch habanero powder
1 1/4 c whole milk
1/2 c vegetable oil
2 large eggs
2 tsp vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350F. Grease 2 9" round cake pans. Line the bottoms and sides with parchment paper and grease the parchment. Set aside. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, salt, coffee, cinnamon, allspice, ancho powder, chipotle powder, and habanero powder. In a large bowl, whisk the milk, oil, eggs, and vanilla until thoroughly combined. Fold in the flour mixture, mixing until smooth. Pour the batter into the prepared cake pans nad bake until a toothpick or tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 30-35 min. Set on a wire rack until slightly cooled, ~ 10 min, then turn them onto the wire rack. Remove the parchment and let the cake layers cool completely.

Buttercream:
6 oz unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/2 lb (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cubed and softened
1 ripe avocado, halved, pitted and mashed
1 tsp vanilla extract
pinch kosher salt
1 c confectioners' sugar

Fill a medium saucepan with 2" of water and set it over medium low heat. Place the chocolate in a medium bowl and set it on top of the double boiler. Melt the chocolate, stirring occasionally with a rubber spatula, and set aside to let cool to room temp, 10-15 min. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat the butter on medium speed until fluffy, 3-4 min. Beat in the avocado, vanilla, and salt. Reduce the mixer's speed to low and slowly add the confectioners' sugar, beating until fully combined. Add the cooled chocolate, mixing until fully incorporated.


Put one cake layer on a serving plate and frost the top. Stack the second layer and frost the top and sides of the cake. Refrigerate until ready to serve.
