Chorizo and Potato Tacos
  --America's Test Kitchen

Filling:
1 lb yukon gold potatoes, peeled, and cut in 1/2" chunks
salt and pepper
3 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tbsp ancho chile powder
1 tbsp paprika
1 1/2 tsp ground coriander
1 1/2 tsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp cinnamon
pinch cayenne pepper
pinch ground allspice
3 tbsp cider vinegar
1 1/2 tsp sugar
1 garlic clove, minced
8 oz ground pork

Bring 4 c water to boil in 12" nonstick skillet over high heat. Add potatoes and 1 tsp salt. Reduce heat to medium, cover, and cook until potatoes are just tender, 3-5 min. Drain potatoes and set aside. Wipe skillet clean with paper towels. Combine oil, chile powder, paprika, coriander, oregano, cinnamon, cayenne, allspice, 3/4 tsp salt, and 1/2 tsp pepper in now empty skillet. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture is bubbling and fragrant. Off heat, carefully stir in vinegar, sugar, and garlic. Let stand until steam subsides and skillet cools slightl, ~ min. Add pork to skillet. Mash and mix with rubber spatula until spice mixture is evenly incorporated into pork. Return skillet to medium high heat and cook, mashing and stirring until pork has broken into fine crumbles and juices are bubbling, ~ 3 min. Stir in potatoes, cover, and reduce heat to low. Cook until potatoes are fully softened and have soaked up most of pork juices, 6-8 min, stirring halfway through cooking. Off heat, using spatula, mash ~1/8 of potatoes. Stir mixture until mashed potatoes are evenly distributed. Cover and keep warm.

Sauce:
8 oz tomatillos, husks and stems removed, rinsed well, dried, and cut into 1" pieces
1 avocado, halved, pitted, and cut into 1" pieces
1-2 jalapenos, stemmed, seeded, and chopped
1/4 c chopped fresh cilantro
1 tbsp lime juice
1 garlic clove, minced
3/4 tsp salt

Process all ingredients in a food processor until smooth, ~1 min, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.

Assembly:
12 6" corn tortillas, warmed
finely chopped white onion
fresh cilantro leaves
lime wedges

Spoon filling into center of each tortilla and serve, passing sauce, onions, cilantro, and lime wedges separately.
