Weeknight Chorizo Bolognese
  --America's Test Kitchen

1 lb Mexican-style chorizo sausage, casings removed
1/2 tsp pepper
4 c beef broth
6 oz pancetta, chopped coarse
1 onion, chopped coarse
1 large carrot, peeled and chopped coarse
1 celery rib, chopped coarse
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp evoo 
3 tbsp tomato paste
1 c dry red wine
1 oz Parmesan cheese, grated (1/2 c) + extra for serving

Bring broth to boil over high heat in large pot and cook until reduced to 2 c, ~15 min; set aside. Pulse pancetta in food processor until finely chopped, 15-20 pulses. Add onion, carrot, and celery and pulse until vegetables are finely chopped and mixture has paste-like consistency, 12-15 pulses, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Heat butter and oil in large Dutch oven over medium-high heat until shimmering. When foaming subsides, add pancetta-vegetable mixture and 1/4 tsp pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until liquid has evaporated, ~8 min. Spread mixture in even layer in bottom of pot and continue to cook, stirring every couple of minutes, until fond forms on bottom of pot, 7-12 min longer. Stir in tomato paste and cook until paste is rust-colored and bottom of pot is dark brown, 1-2 min. Reduce heat to medium, add chorizo and cook, using wooden spoon to break meat into pieces no larger than 1/4", until beef has just lost its raw pink color, 4-7 min. Stir in wine, scraping up any fond, and bring to simmer. Cook until wine has evaporated and sauce has thickened, ~5 min. Stir in broth and Parmesan. Return sauce to simmer; cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 30 minutes (sauce will look thin). Remove from heat and season with salt and pepper to taste. Rinse pot that held broth. While sauce simmers, bring 4 qt water to boil in now-empty pot. Add pasta and 1 tbsp salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente. Reserve 1/4 c cooking water, then drain pasta. Add pasta to pot with sauce and toss to combine. Adjust sauce consistency with reserved cooking water as needed. Transfer to platter or individual bowls and serve, passing extra Parmesan separately.


