Chorizo Chilaquiles

Chipotle Sauce

1 dried ancho chile
1 1/2 c boiling water
2 tsp canola oil
1 1/2 c chopped yellow onion (1 medium)
1/2 tsp kosher salt divided
1 tbsp chopped garlic (1 clove)
1 1/2 c tomato sauce (1 14oz can)
1 chipotle chile in adobo
1 tbsp chipotle chile in adobo sauce
water as needed

Put the ancho chile in a small bowl and pour the boiling water over. Let sit until the chile is deep red and soft, ~20 min. In a large saute pan over high heat, warm the canola oil and add the onions. Season with kosher salt and cook, stirring often until the edges turn dark brown, ~ 5min. Add the garlic and cook until golden brown, another minute, and remove from heat. When the ancho chile is soft, destem it and remove its seeds, reserving the water. Add the chile and 1/2 c of the water to a blender, along with the onion garlic mixture, tomato sauce, chipotle chile and it's adobo sauce. Puree on medium high speed until smooth. Return to the large saute pan and bring to a low boil over medium high heat. Reduce the heat to low and keep warm. Makes ~3 c.

Pickled Red Onions:

1/2 c thinly sliced red onions (1/2 small red onion)
2 tbsp fresh lime juice (1 lime)
pinch kosher salt

In a small bowl, combine the onions and lime juice. Season with kosher salt and set aside to macerate.

Chilaquiles:

2 tsp canola oil
1/2 c (3 oz) fresh chorizo
1 large egg
3 c chipotle chili sauce
4 c thick tortilla chips, unsalted (from 8 tortillas)
1/4 c crumbled queso fresco
1/2 c cilantro
1/2 avocado, sliced
1 lime cut into wedges
sour cream for serving

In a small saute pan over medium high heat, warm the oil. Add the chorizo and cook, breaking the meat apart and stirring with a wooden spoon until browned, 3-4 min. Push the meat to the side of the pan and add the egg, frying it in the chorizo fat, until the whites are completely cooked and the yolk is barely set, ~ 3min. Return the chipotle chile sauce to a simmer over medium high heat. Taste and adjust the seasoning with salt as needed. If the sauce has reduced too mcuh, add a few tbsp of water. Add the tortilla chips and toss with a large slotted spoon to coat. Scoop out the chips, letting excess sauce drip back into the pan and transfer to a large serving bowl. Sprink with the chorizo, queso freso, and the pickled red onion. Top with the fried egg and cilantro and serve with sour cream, avocado slices, and lime wedges.
