Churro Fried Ice Cream
  --Toni Dash

2 c vanilla bean ice cream 
1 1/2 c snickerdoodle cookie crumbs , homemade or store purchased cookies may be used (can use Udi's Gluten-Free Snickerdoodles)
3/4 c cornflakes crumbs (gluten-free or regular)
4 eggs
1/2 c sugar
1 tsp ground cinnamon
sunflower oil (selected due to no taste and high heat tolerance)

Prepare a rimmed baking sheet by lining with parchment paper. Scoop ice cream into 1/2 c balls. Mold with hands. Place on the prepared baking sheet and cover with plastic wrap. Freeze until hard; 2-3 hr, or overnight. Place the cookie crumbs in a small mixing bowl. Roll each ice cream ball, one at a time (leaving others in the freezer) applying slight pressure to fully coat with the crumbs (NOTE:  it will not coat densely). Return the coated ice cream balls to the freezer pan and allow to freeze for 30 min. Gently beat 2 of the eggs in a medium size bowl. One by one, roll an ice cream ball in the eggs to fully coat, and then in the cookie crumbs to fully coat. Return the coated ice cream ball to the freezer pan and repeat for the remaining 3 ice cream balls individually; returning each to the freezer immediately after coating. Allow to freeze for 1 hr or until hard. Gently beat the two remaining eggs in a medium size bowl. Place the cereal crumbs in a separate medium bowl. Gently beat the two remaining eggs in a medium size bowl. Place the cereal crumbs in a separate medium bowl. One by one, dip the ice cream balls in the eggs to fully coat followed by the cereal crumbs to fully coat. Return the coated ice cream balls to the freezer pan and freeze for 30 min or until completely hard. Combine the granulated sugar and cinnamon in a small mixing bowl; mix to fully blend and spread on a salad plate. Set aside. Fill a medium pot with four inches of oil (or enough to cover the ice cream ball when frying). Position a candy thermometer on the side of the pot to monitor the heat. Heat the oil to 375F. Set serving plates or bowls near the stove for quick plating. Ice cream balls will be fried one by one then immediately plated and served. Using a heatproof slotted spoon, gently lower an ice cream ball into the heated oil. Fry for 20 s, spooning the oil over the top of the ball. NOTE: careful to avoid the hot oil contacting your hands. Remove the fried ice cream with the slotted spoon and place on the plate with the cinnamon-sugar. The ice cream ball will be hot! Gently roll the ball using a spatula or sprinkle the cinnamon-sugar on the ice cream ball to cover all sides. Lift ice cream ball off the plate, gently shake off excess cinnamon-sugar and place on serving plate/bowl. Garnish with chocolate syrup and/or whipped cream and serve immediately. Repeat for remaining ice cream balls.



Notes: Place cookies or cereal in a blender or food processor and process until turned into crumbs.
