Chutney & Cheddar Palmiers
  --Chetna Makan

Cilantro-Mint Chutney:
1 1/2 c firmly packed (50 g) fresh cilantro leaves
1/2 c firmly packed (25 g) fresh mint leaves
2 bird’s-eye green, Thai, or Scotch bonnet chiles
3 tbsp lemon juice (from 1 large lemon)
1/2 tsp granulated sugar
1/2 tsp sea salt

Combine all of the ingredients in a blender with 1 tbsp of water and blitz until smooth. Alternatively, make the purée with a mortar and pestle. Add water as needed until spreadable, but not totally smooth. Set aside (you should have ~1/2 c).

Palmiers:
ap flour, for dusting
1 sheet packaged puff pastry (between 8-12 oz), thawed but still cold
1 c (100 g) coarsely grated extra-sharp white cheddar cheese
1 large egg, lightly beaten

Heat the oven to 400°F/200°C (or 350°F/180°C in a convection oven). Line a sheet pan with parchment paper. Lightly flour a work surface and unroll the pastry into a 13x10" rectangle (the longer sides should be facing north and south, and the shorter sides east and west). Spread the chutney over the surface of the pastry, leaving a thin edge around, then sprinkle the cheese over the chutney. Press the cheese into the pastry with your hands. Working from the long end of the pastry closest to you (the south-facing side), fold ~1/2" of the pastry over itself, then very tightly roll the pastry until you’ve reached the center (or rolled ~half the pastry). Repeat this process on the north side of the pastry, until the two rolls meet in the middle. Brush the very center of the pastry (the gap between the two rolls) with some of the beaten egg, then gently press the two rolls together to seal the middle. Flip over the pastry log. Brush away the excess flour from the pastry. Use a sharp knife to cut the log into 1" thick slices (you should have ~12-14 pieces). Brush the top of each sliced pastry with more beaten egg, then place them flat, ~1" apart, on the prepared sheet pan. If the pastry seems quite warm and soft to the touch, you can pop it in the freezer for 5 min to firm up. Bake for 25-35 min, or until golden and crispy. Enjoy them warm or at room temperature.



Notes: Can use any chutney, or even pesto (use less pesto). Can freeze leftover chutney.
