Cinnamon Swirl Bread
  --America's Test Kitchen

Dough:
8 tbsp unsalted butter
3 3/4 c (20 2/3 oz) bread flour + more for dusting
3/4 c (2 3/4 oz) nonfat dry milk
1/3 c (2 1/3 oz) sugar
1 tbsp instat or rapid rise yeast
1 1/2 c warm water (110F)
1 large egg, lightly beaten
1 1/2 tsp salt
1 1/2 c (7 1/2 oz) golden raisins

Cut butter into 32 pieces and toss with 1 tbsp flour; set aside to soften while mixing dough. Whisk remaining flour, milk, sugar, and yeast together in bowl of stand mixer fitted with dough hook. Add water and egg and mix on medium low speed until cohesive mass forms, ~2 min, scraping down bowl if necessary. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and let stand for 20 min. Adjust oven rack to middle position and place loaf or cake pan on bottom of oven. Remove plastic from mixer, add salt, and mix on medium low until dough is mooth and elastic and clears side of bowl, 7-15 min. With mixer running, add butter, few pieces at a ime, and continue to knead until butter is fully incorporated and dough is smooth and elastic and clears sides of bowl, 3-5 min. Add raisins and mix until incorporated, 30-60 s. Transfer dough to large greased bowl and, using bowl scraper or rubber spatula, fold dough over itself by gently lifting and folding edge of dough towards middle. Turn bowl 90 degrees; fold again. Turn bowl and fold 6 more times (total of 8 folds). Cover tightly with plastic and transfer to middle rack of oven. Pour 3 c boiling water into loaf pan in oven, close door, and allow dough to rise for 45 min. Remove bowl from oven and gently press down on center of dough to deflate. Repeat folding step, making total of 8 folds, cover, and return to oven until doubled in volume, ~45 min. 

Filling:
1 c (4 oz) confectioners' sugar
3 tbsp cinnamon
1 tsp vanilla
1/2 tsp salt

Whisk all ingredients together until well combined; set aside. Grease 2 8 1/2x4 1/2" loaf pans. Transfer dough to lightly floured surface and divide into 2 pieces. Working with 1 piece of dough, pat into rough 6x11" rectangle. With short side facing you, fold long sides in like a letter to form 3x11" rectangle. Roll dough away from you into ball. Dust ball with flour and flatten with rolling pin into 7x18" rectangle with even 1/4" thickness. Using spray bottle, spray dough lightly with water. Sprinkle 1/2 filling evenly over dough, leaving 1/2" border on sides and 3/4" border on top and bottom; spray filling lightly with water. Filling should be speckled with water over entire surface. With short side facing you, roll dough away from you into firm cylinder. Turn loaf seam side up and pinch closed; pinch ends closed. Dust loaf lightly on all sides with flour and let rest 10 min. Repeat with second ball of dough and remaining filling. Working with 1 loaf at a time, use bench scraper to cut loaf in half lengthwise; turn halves so cut sides are facing up. Gently stretch each half into 14" length. Line up pieces and pinch 2 ends of strips together. Take piece on left and lay over piece on right. Repeat, keeping cut side up, until pieces of dough are tightly twisted. Pinch ends together. Transfer loaf, cut side up, to prepared loaf pan; push any exposed raisins into seams of braid. Repeat with second loaf. Cover loosely with plastic , return to oven, and allow to rise for 45 min. Remove loaves and water from oven; heat to 350F. Allow loaves to rise at room temp until almost doubled in size, ~45 min longer; top of loaves should rise ~1" over rim of pan. 

Egg Wash:
1 larg egg, lightly beaten with a pinch of salt

Brush loaves with wash. Bake until crust is well browned, ~35 min. Reduce oven temp to 325F, tent loaves with foil, and continue to bake until internal temp registers 200, 15-25 min longer. Transfer pans to wire rack and let cool for 5 min. Remove from loaf pans, return to rack, and cool to room temp before slicing, ~2 hrs.



Notes: Can be wrapped in double layer of plastic and stored at room temp for up to 2 days; can freeze for up to 1 month.
