Cinnamon Rolls

Dough:
1 c whole milk
5 tbsp unsalted butter
2 1/2 tsp (1 packet) dry instant yeast
3 tbsp granulated sugar
1/2 tsp kosher salt
4 3/4 c ap flour divided + more for kneading and rolling
3 large eggs
1/2 tsp canola oil

In a small saucepan over low heat, warm the milk and butter until the butter has melted and the temp reaches 105F. Pour the mixture into the bowl of a stand mixer and sprinkle the yeast on top (do not stir in). Let it sit until it foams, 8-10 min, then using a wooden spoon, stir in the sugar and salt. Add 2 1/4 c of flour and stir until just combined, about 30 sec. Add the eggs and stir until completely incorporated, scraping down the sides as needed, another 30 sec. Transfer the bowl to the stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment and beat on medium high until a smooth batter forms, 2-3 min. Remove the bowl from the mixer and stir in the remaining 2 1/2 c flour, mixing until the dough comes together and forms a tacky ball, 3-4 min. Transfer the dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, 3-4 min, adding more flour as needed if the dough is wet. Wipe the mixing bowl clean then coat it with canola oil Add the dough ball, turning once to grease the surface of the dough. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the dough rise in a warm place until it doubles in size, 50 min-1hr.

Filling:
1/2 c unsalted butter, softened + more for greasing
1 1/2 c packed light brown sugar
1 tbsp cinnamon
1/2 tsp kosher salt

In a medium bowl, stir together all of the ingredients, forming a granular paste. Set aside.


Grease a 9x13" pan with butter and set aside. When the dough is ready, roll it out onto a floured surface into a 12x18" rectangle that's 1/8" thick. Spread the filling over the dough, leaving a 1" border on all sides. Starting at one long end, roll the dough into a log. Pinch to seal the long seam and place the log onto a lightly floured surface, seam side down. Using a large serrated knife, cut the log into 15 pieces, each about 1 1/2" thick, and place in the prepared pan, cut side up. Loosely cover with plastic wrap and let sit in a warm place for a second rise until puffy and slightly warm to the touch, 20-25 min. The rolls can be refrigerated up to 1 day. To bake, remove the pan from the refrigerator and let the dough rise for 1 hr, then proceed with the recipe.
Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 375F. After the second rise, remove the plastic cover and bake until golden brown, 18-22 min.


Glaze:
2/3 c granulated sugar
2 tbsp light brown sugar
4 tbsp unsalted butter
1/3 c evaporated milk
1 tsp vanilla extract
pinch kosher salt

In a small saucepan, combine the sugars, butter, and evaporated milk, and place over medium heat. Cook, whisking constantly, until the butter is melted, and the sugars have dissolved, 2-3 min. Remove from the heat and whisk in the vanilla and salt. Let cool and set aside.

Remove the cinnamon rolls from the oven and drizzle the glaze over the top. Let cool at least 20 min before eating.
