Cinnamon Buns
  --Cook's Country
  
Dough:
3/4 c whole milk, heated to 110F
1 envelope (2 1/4 tsp) instant or rapid-rise yeast
3 large eggs, room temperature
4 1/4 c ap flour
1/2 c cornstarch
1/2 c granulated sugar
1 1/2 tsp salt
12 tbsp (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 12 pieces and softened

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 200F. When oven reaches 200F, shut off. Line 13x9" baking pan with foil, allowing excess foil to hang over pan edges. Grease foil and medium bowl. Whisk milk and yeast in liquid measuring cup until yeast dissolves, then whisk in eggs. In bowl of stand mixer fitted with dough hook, mix flour, cornstarch, sugar, and salt until combined. With mixer on low, add warm milk mixture in steady stream and mix until dough comes together, ~1 min. Increase speed to medium and add butter, one piece at a time, until incorporated. Continue to mix until dough is smooth and comes away from sides of bowl, ~10 minutes. Turn dough out onto clean surface and knead to form a smooth, round ball. Transfer dough to prepared bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and place in warm oven. Let rise until doubled in size, ~2 hr. If after mixing for 10 min the dough is still wet and sticky, add up to 1/4 c flour (a tbsp at a time) until the dough releases from the bowl. Turn dough out onto lightly floured surface. Roll dough into 18" square.

Filling:
1 1/2 c packed light brown sugar
1 1/2 tbsp cinnamon
1/4 tsp salt
4 tbsp unsalted butter, softened

Combine brown sugar, cinnamon, and salt in small bowl. Spread dough with butter, and sprinkle evenly with filling. Starting with the edge nearest you, roll dough into tight cylinder, pinch lightly to seal seam, and, following photo 3, cut into 8 pieces. Transfer pieces, cut-side up, to prepared pan. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise in warm spot until doubled in size, ~1 hr.

Glaze:
4 oz cream cheese, softened
1 tbsp whole milk
1 tsp vanilla
1 1/2 c confectioners' sugar

Heat oven to 350 F. Whisk cream cheese, milk, vanilla, and confectioners’ sugar in medium bowl until smooth. Discard plastic wrap and bake buns until deep golden brown and filling is melted, 35-40 min. Transfer to wire rack and top buns with 1/2 c glaze; cool 30 min. Using foil overhang, lift buns from pan and top with remaining glaze. Serve. 



Notes: After transferring pieces to prepared pan, buns can be covered with plastic wrap and refrigerated for 24 hr. When ready to bake, let sit at room temperature for 1 hr. Remove plastic wrap and continue with preheating oven and making glaze.
