Cinnamon Roll Doughnut

Dough:
5 tbsp room temp water
2 1/2 tbsp active dry yeast
5 tbsp whole milk
9 eggs
7 1/2 c ap flour + more for dusting
1/2 c + 1 tbsp sugar
2 1/2 tbsp salt
3 sticks + 2 tbsp unsalted butter, cubed and chilled
canola oil for frying

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine the water with the yeast and let sit for 5 min. With the motor running, slowly add the milk and eggs, followed by the flour. Mix until well incorporated, 2-3 min, then add the sugar and salt. Continue to mix until a smooth, elastic dough comes together, 6-8 min. Slowly add the butter until incorporated, allowing for a piece to be stretched with your hands until almost translucent, another 3-4 min. Transfer to a parchment lined baking sheet and shape into a ball. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator for 2 hrs.

Filling:
1 stick unsalted butter
1 c + 2 tbsp dark brown sugar
1/4 c ap flour
1 tbsp cinnamon
1 tsp salt
3 tbsp whiskey

In a medium saucepan, melt the butter over medium high heat. Add the brown sugar, flour, cinnamon, salt, and whiskey. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly, then remove from the heat and let cool to room temp.

Frosting:
8 tbsp (1 stick) unsalted butter
8 ox cream cheese
1 3/4 c confectioners' sugar
1/4 tsp salt
1 vanilla bean, seeds scraped
5 tbsp whole milk

In a medium saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the cream cheese and cook, stirring constantly until smooth, 4-5 min. Add the confectioners' sugar, salt, and vanilla seeds, and stir until incorporated. Stir in the milk and bring to a boil. Remove from heat and set aside.


Divide the dough into 3 equal pieces and, on a lightly floured surface, roll each into a 12x18" rectangle, about 1/4" thick. Return to the parchment lined baking sheet, layering parchment in between each piece of dough. Place the tray in the freezer to rest for 1 hr. Remove the tray from the freezer and lay 1 sheet of dough on a clean work surface. Brush off as much flour as possible, then spread the filling evenly into an 8" square in the center of the dough. Trim the dough around the filling. Tightly roll the square into a log, then trim the ends. Slice into 12 1/2" disks and set aside. On a lightly floured work surface, lay out another sheet of dough. Lightly brush the surface with water. Arrance the cinnamon rolls on top, about 2" apart from one another. Lay the final sheet of dough on top of the cinnamon rolls, and using your fingers, press the dough around each cinnamon roll to seal. Using the tio, curved side of a 2 3/4" plain circle cutter, press around each cinnamon roll to remove any aire and fully seal the dough. Using a 3" plain circle cutter, cut out the 12 doughnuts. Transfer to a parchment lined sheet tray dusted with flour and let proof at room temp for 1 1/2 hrs. Pour enough oil into a 6 quart dutch oven to reach a depth of 2". Heat the oil until a deep fry thermometer reads 275F. Line 1 baking sheet with a wire rack. Working in 3 batches, fry the doughnuts, flipping once, until golden brown and puffed, 8-10 min per side. Reheat the glaze over medium heat until viscous, then ladle over each doughnut to coat. Transfer to a platter and serve.
