Clam and Corn Chowder

2 tbsp olive oil, divided
1/2 c dry white wine, divided
3 dozen littleneck clams, scrubbed, divided
3 slices thick cut bacon, finely chopped
1 large spanish onion, thinly sliced
1 small shallot, thinly sliced
1 garlic clove, thinly sliced
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
5 c corn kernels (~5 ears of corn)
2 c heavy cream
1 c water
1 jalapeno, halved and seeded
1/2 tsp cayenne pepper
2 tsp granulated sugar
3 thyme sprigs
1 rosemary sprig
1 bay leaf
1 large russet potato, peeled and cut into 1/2" cubes
1 tbsp finely chopped parsley
1 tbsp finely chopped chives
1 tbsp finely chopped tarragon

In a large pot over medium high heat, heat 1 tbsp olive oil. When the oil is hot, ad 1/4 c wine and, working in batches, steam 2 dozen of the clams. Cover and cook, shaking the po frequently, until the clams have opened, 8-10 min. As the clams open, transfer them and their juices to a large bowl. Discard any clams that do not open. When the clams are cool enough to handle, remove them from their shells and coarsely chop the meat. Set aside. Pour the cooking liquid from the pot through a fine strainer into another bowl (~2 c, if not, add water) Set aside. Wipe the pot clean, add the bacon and place over medium heat. Cook, stirring often, until the fat begins to render and the bacon is crisp, 8-10 min. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the bacon to a paper towe lined plate to drain. If the pan looks dry, add the remaining oil. Add the onions, shallots, and garlic, and season with salt and pepper. Cook stirring often, until soft and brown, 12-15 min. Add the remaining 1/4 c wine and reduce the heat; cook for 2-3 min. Add the corn and cook for another 6-8 min. Add the cream, water, jalapeno, cayenne, sugar, and reserved clam liquid. Using kitchen twine, tie the thyme, rosemary, and bay leaf together to make a herb bundle, then add it to the soup. Cook over medium heat until the cream has reduced by 1/3, 15-20 min. Remove from heat and discard the jalapenos and herb bundle. Using a blender or a immersion blender, puree the soup until smooth. Return to low heat, add the potatoes, and cook until almost tender, 6-8 min. Add the clam meat and remaining dozen clams in their shells. Cover and cook until the clam shells pop open, 8-10 min. Once the shells are open, taste and adjust the seasoning. Serve, garnishing with parsley, chives, bacon, tarragon
