Cochinita Pibil
  --Cook's Illustrated

4 lbs pork butt
2 head garlic, cloves separated, unpeeled
2 tbsp vegetable oil
1/4 c annatto seeds
1 tbsp black peppercorns
4" stick canela cinnamon
1 tbsp whole allspice berries
2 tbsp mexican oregano
1/4 c oj
1/4 c cider vinegar
1 tbsp salt
1 tsp liquid smoke
1 medium onion, cut into 3/4" rounds
8 oz banana leaf, cut into long strips and bruised
8 bay leaves

Use sous vide to heat water bath to 155F (68.5C). Slice pork in half through equator to create 2 equal pieces; transfer to large bowl. Cook garlic in dry 12" skillet over high heat, shaking skillet occasionally, until garlic is blackened on most sides, 8-10 min. Transfer garlic to bowl and let cool; wipe out skillet with paper towels. Add oil to skillet and heat over medium until shimmering. Add annatto seeds, peppercorns, cinnamon stick, allspice berries, and oregano, cover, and cook, shaking pan frequently, for 30 s. Transfer spice mixture to blender. Peel garlic and add to spice mixture along with oj, vinegar, salt, and liquid smoke; blend on high until smooth paste forms, ~3 min, scraping down sides of blender as needed. (add 2 tbsp water if blender is having trouble) Measure out 1/4 c spice paste and rub evenly over pork. Leave remaining paste in blender; cover.

For Charcoal Grill: Open bottom vent completely. Light large chimney starter filled with charcoal briquettes (6 quarts). When top coals are partially covered with ash, pour evenly over half of grill. Set cooking grate in place, cover, and open lid vent completely. Heat grill until hot, about 5 minutes. 

For Gas Grill: Turn all burners to high, cover, and heat grill until hot, about 15 minutes. Leave all burners on high. 

Clean and oil cooking grate. Place pork and onions on grill (if using charcoal, place over coals) and cook until well charred on first side, 3-4 min. Flip pork and onions and continue to grill until second side is well charred, 2-3 min. Return pork to large bowl. Continue to cook onions until softened, flipping occasionally, ~4 min; transfer to small bowl. Add onions to blender with remaining spice paste and blend on high until smooth, 1-2 min. Divide pork and spice paste between 2x1gal zip top bags. Press out as much air as possible from bags and seal. Working with one bag at a time, gently lower bag into water bath, allowing any remaining air bubbles to rise to top of bag (do not let go of bag). Reopen 1 corner of zipper, release remaining air pockets, and seal bag fully. Release bag into water bath and cook for 22-26 hrs. Remove bags from watre bath, open bags, and use tongs to transfer pork to cutting board. Strain cooking liquid in bags through colander set over large serving bowl; discard solids. Roughly chop pork into 1/2" pieces and transfer to serving bowl with liquid; toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper to taste.

Garnishes:
18 6" corn tortillas, warmed
habanero salsa
pickled red onions
thinly sliced radishes
thinly sliced scallions
queso fresco or cotija cheese
lime wedges

Notes: after cooking for 22+ hrs, can chill the bags in an ice bath and refrigerate for up to 3 days; reheat in water bath at 155F (68.5C) for 30 min before serving.
