Massaman Curry
  --Asha Loupy

Curry Paste:
15–20 (60g) dried mild red chillies, such as Thai long, Hungarian Wax or Guajillo
1 1/2 tbsp whole coriander
1 1/2 tbsp whole cumin
1 1/2 tsp whole pepper
8 whole cloves
5 pods green cardamom
2" (4g) cinnamon stick, broken into a few pieces
3 blades (4g) mace
1/2 tsp freshly grated nutmeg
2 tsp kosher salt
2 medium shallots, diced
2x5" lemongrass stalks (root end), sliced
1 head garlic (~15 cloves), peeled & smashed
1" piece galagal, peeled and finely grated or minced
1/4 c cilantro stems, roughly chopped
3–4 makrut lime leaves, roughly chopped
1/4 c coconut oil
1 tbsp shrimp paste

Heat a large skillet over medium heat. Add the chillies and dry toast until fragrant and starting to turn golden brown in spots, ~30 s to a minute per side. Transfer to a plate and let cool to room temperature. Return the skillet to medium heat and add the coriander seeds, cumin seeds, black peppercorns, cloves, cardamom, cinnamon and mace. Dry toast the spices, stirring frequently, until the coriander starts to turn a light golden brown, ~1–2 min. Transfer the spices to a plate or bowl and let cool to room temperature. Using kitchen shears or scissors, remove the stems and seeds from the toasted chillies. Break or cut into pieces, place in a spice grinder and grind into a fine powder. (You may have to grind the chillies in batches depending on the size of your spice grinder.) Transfer the chilli powder to the bowl of a food processor or high-powered blender. Transfer the toasted spice mix to a spice grinder and grind into a fine powder. Transfer the ground spices to the food processor or blender. Add the remaining curry paste ingredients to the food processor and blend until smooth. This recipe makes a double batch of massaman curry paste. 

Curry:
14 oz can full-fat coconut milk, refrigerated for 2 hr
1/2 recipe Massaman Curry Paste
1 1/2 lb beef stew meat, such as chuck, beef shank or flanken cut short ribs, cut into 1 1/2" pieces
1 tbsp fish sauce
2 tsp tamarind paste
1–3 tsp palm sugar, jaggery or brown sugar
1 lb baby Yukon gold potatoes, peeled
4 medium shallots, peeled and halved lengthwise with the root end still intact
1/4 c whole roasted peanuts

Heat a large Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed pot over medium heat. Scoop the chilled coconut cream off the top of the coconut milk (you should have ~1/3 c) and add to the pot along with the massaman curry paste. Stir to combine and fry until the paste starts to toast and the oil separates, ~3–5 min. Add the beef, stirring to coat in the fried paste, and continue to cook for another 3–4 min (this will help seal the meat). Add the fish sauce, tamarind paste, one tsp palm sugar and the remaining coconut milk along with 1 c of water, stir and bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat to low, cover and let cook until the meat is just tender, ~1 1/2–2 hr, depending on the cut of beef you’re using. Add the potatoes and shallots, stir, making sure the potatoes are submerged in the curry, cover and continue to cook until the potatoes are cooked through, ~40–45 min. Taste and adjust the seasonings, adding more palm sugar or fish sauce, if necessary. Add the peanuts and continue to cook uncovered for 5 min. Serve hot over jasmine rice.




Notes: Can freeze unused curry paste.
When it comes to the cut of beef, choose one that will stand up to a low and slow simmer. You're aiming for melt-in-your-mouth tender, spiced beef at the end, so choose a cut like chuck, beef shanks or flanken-cut short ribs. If you choose a bone-in cut, just do your best to cut the meat into large chunks and make sure to throw the bones in as well (it'll make for an even deeper, more silky curry). Want to use chicken instead of beef? Just make sure to use chicken thighs, as these take much better to a long braise.
