Cornbread Ice Cream Sandwiches

Corn Ice Cream:
4 corn ears, shucked
2 c heavy cream
1 c whole milk
3/4 c sugar
1/2 tsp salt
6 egg yolks

Cut the kernels off the corncobs and chop the cobs into 2" pieces. Transfer the kernels and cobs to a medium saucepan with the cream, milk,sugar, and salt. Bring to a simmer over medium heat and cook, stirring until the sugar has dissolved, ~5min. Remove from the heat and let steep for 1 hr, then discard the cobs and transfer the mixture to a blender. Puree until smoothm then return to the pan. Place the egg yolks in a medium bowl. Return the corn puree to a simmer, then gradually ladle it into the yolks, whisking to prevent them from curdling. Pour the mixture back into the saucepan over medium heat and stir continuously until the mixture thickens, coating the back of a wooden spoon, 4-5 min. Strain through a fine mesh sieve and let cool, then chill in the refrigerator overnight. Make sure the bowl of the ice cream maker is placed into the freezer the night before churning.

Corn Bread:
1 1/2 c ap flour
2/3 c sugar
1/2 c cornmeal
1 tbsp baking powder
1 tsp salt
1/4 c vegetable oil
4 tbsp melted butter
2 tbsp honey
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 1/4 c buttermilk

Preheat oven to 350F and line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the flour, sugar, cornmeal, baking pwder, and salt, until incorporated. With the motor running, add the oil, melted butter, honey, and eggs, then slowly stream in the buttermilk until a smooth batter comes together. Pour into the prepared baking sheet and smooth with a spatula. Bake, rotating halfway through, until golden brown, 30 min. Let cool completely.

Using an ice cream maker, churn the base per manufacturer's directions. Transfer the corn bread to a cutting board and halve crosswise. Transfer one piece to a parchment lined 9x13" baking dish. Spread the ice cream in an even layer over the bread and add the other piece over top. Wrap in plastic and freeze until set, 4-6 hrs. 

Topping:
1/2 c corn nuts
1/2 c corn pops

In a food processor, combine topping ingredients and pulse until roughly chopped. Transfer to a plate.

Cut the ice cream sandwich into 12 bars and press each into the topping. Serve immediately or keep wrapped in the freezer for up to 2 days.
