Cranberry Sauce

Classic

3 c cranberries
3/4 c water
1/2 c sugar
1/2 tsp vanilla extract

In a medium saucepan, combine the cranberries, water, and sugar. Cover and bring to a boil over medium heat, 4 min. Uncover and cook at a low boil, stirring occasionally until most of the berries have burst, about 5 min. Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla.

Smoky

2 tsp olive oil
1 shallot, minced
pinch kosher salt
1/2 tsp ground cumin
3 c cranberries
3/4 c water
1/4 c sugar
3 tbsp chipotle in adobo
1 lime (zest and juice)

In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium high heat. Add the shallot and cook until translucent, 4-5 min. Season with the salt and cumin, and cook another minute, then stir in the cranberries, water, and sugar. Cover and bring to a boil, 3 min, then uncover and add the chipotle in adobo. Cook, stirring occasionally, until thickened, 5 min. Remove from the heat and stir in the lime zest and juice. Let cool slightly then puree in a blender until smooth; strain through a fine-mesh sieve.

Marmalade

1 meyer lemon
1 blood orange
1 small grapefruit
3 c cranberries
1/2 c sugar

Scrube the lemon, blood orange, and grapefruit clean, then peel their skins into strips using a vegetable peeler. Scrape away any pith, then thinly slice the zest (1/3 c) and place into a small saucepan. Juice the citrus (3/4 c) and add to the zest along with the cranberries and sugar. Cover and bring to a boil over medium high heat, 4 min. Uncover and cook at a low boil, stirring occasionally until most of the berrries have burst, 5 min more. 

Chutney

1 1/2 c cranberries, divided
1/3 c apple cider vinegar
1/3 c water
1/2 c light brown sugar
1 grated carrot
1 grated shallot
1/4 c chopped dried apricots
1/4 c golden raisins
3/4 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp ground coriander
1/2 tsp whole mustard seeds
1/4 tsp ground tumeric
pinch kosher salt
pepper

In a medium saucepan, combine 1 c of the cranberries with the remaining ingredients. Bring to a simmer over medium high heat and cook to meld the flavors, 5 min. Add the remaining cranberries and simmer until they just begin to burst, 5 min. 

Beegan:
3 c fresh cranberries (can use frozen)
1/3 c raw honey + more to taste
1 tbsp orange zest
1/2 c fresh oj
1/2 c water
6 sprays propolis
cinnamon stick

Place medium saucepan ove rmedium heat and add the cranberries, honey, orange zest, oj, water, and cinnamon stick. Stir occasionally until cranberries start to pop and the mixture comes to a boil. Continue until it turns into a sauce-like texture, ~15 min. Taste and adjust sweetness with more honey if necessary. Remove from heat and let cool. Can store in fridge for up to 3-4 days, or freeze for a few months.
