Raspberry Cream Puffs

Pate a Choux:
3/4 c skim milk
3/4 c water
8 tbsp unsalted butter, cubed
1 1/2 tsp sugar
3/4 tsp kosher salt
1 3/4 c ap flour
6 large eggs

In a medium saucepan, combine the milk, water, butter, sugar, and salt, then bring to a boil. Turn off the heat and immediately add all of the flour at once. Using a wooden spoon, stir the mixture until smooth. Return the heat to medium and continue cooking, stirring constantly, until a thin film of dough sticks to the bottom of the pan, 4-5 min. Transfer the hot batter to the bowl of a stand mixer fit with a paddle attachment. Mix on medium low speed for 2 min to cool slightly. With the motor running, add the eggs into the batter, one at a time, scraping the bowl between each addiotion. The batter should be smooth and glossy. Cover the batter with plastic wrap (touching the surface) and chill for 1 hr, then transfer to a piping bag fit with a 1/4" plain round pastry tip. Preheat the oven to 375F and line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Pipe 2 tbsp mounds of dough (1 1/4" in diameter) about 1 1/2" apart from each other. Dip your finger in some water and gently flatten out any peaks of batter that form while piping. Bake, rotating the trays halfway through, until golden brown, 30-35 min. Let cool completely. 

Filling:
1/2 c seedless raspberry jam
1 c heavy cream
1/2 tsp vanilla extract

Transfer the jam to a pastry bag. In a medium bowl, whisk the cream and vanilla to stiff peaks, then transfer to another pastry bag.

Frosting:
1/2 c confectioners' sugar
1 1/2 tbsp seedless raspberry jam
1 1/2 tbsp boiling water

Place the confectioners' sugar in a medium bowl. In a small bowl, mix together the jam with the boiling water until just smooth. Strain the mixture into the bowl with the sugar, then whisk until smooth. Set aside.

Using the pastry tip, punch holes in the bottom of each cream puff for filling. Pipe about 1/2 tsp of jam into each puff, then fill the rest of the space with the whipped cream. Once all have been filled, dip their tops into the frosting, being carefull to prevent dripping.


