Croissants

3 1/2 c ap flour divided + more for dusting
2/3 c water heated to 115F
3 tsp active dry yeast, divided
2/3 c roomt temp whole milk
1/4 c granulated sugar
1 1/2 tbsp kosher salt
2 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, chilled, + 3 tbsp softened
1 egg, beaten

In a medium bowl, whisk together 1 c of flour with water and a pinch of yeast until smooth. Cover in plastic wrap and let sit somewhere warm for 5 hrs (preferment). In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine the preferment and the remaining 2 1/2 c of flour, remaining yeast, milk, sugar, salt, and softened butter. Mix until a dough comes together, then transfer to a lightly floured work surface and knead until smooth, 2 min. On a parchment lined sheet pan, shape the dough into a rectangle and wrap in plastic wrap. Refrigerate overnight. The next day, on a lightly floured work surface, roll the dough into a 14x20" horizontal rectangle. On a floured sheet of parchment paper, beat the 2 1/2 sticks of unsalted butter with a rolling pin to flatten. Using flour as needed, roll the butter into a 9x13" rectangle. Peel off the parchment paper and place the butter insert on the right half of the dough. Fold the dough over the butter and seal the edges. Fold the top third and bottom third of the dough in like a letter and place the foled dough, seal down, on a parchment lined sheet pan. Chill for 30 min. Roll the chilled dough into a 14x16" horizontal rectangle, then complete a trifold, folding the left and right ends in like a letter. Chill the dough for 30 min. Repeat this process 3 more times for a total of 4 trifolds, then chill again for 30 min. Roll the laminated dough into a 9x40" horizontal rectangle (this will take about 10 min). Using a sharp knife, cut 5" notches into the top edge of the rectangle, cutting to the centerpoint of each notch. You should end up with 14 triangles. Working from the wide end of the triangle, roll the dough into a croissant shape, tucking the end of the dough underneath. Place the rolled croissants on 2 parchment lined sheet pans, 2" apart. Lightly brush each one with some of the beaten egg, then place them somewhere warm to proof for 2 hrs, until the croissants have risen and you can see the layers of butter. Preheat the oven to 350F. After proofing, brush the croissants again with the remaining egg, then bake, rotating every 10 min, until golden brown and risen, 30 min. Let cool completely, then serve.
