Dan Dan Noodle Mix
  --Mandy Lee @ladyandpups

Meat mixture:
3/4 lb ground beef or pork
1 tbsp fish sauce
2 tsp shoyu
2 tsp toasted sesame oil
1 1/2 tsp ground Szechuan peppercorns
1 1/2 tsp cornstarch
1 tsp grated ginger
1 garlic clove, grated
1/2 tsp ground white pepper
1/4 c canola oil
1/4 c finely minced pickled jalapeño (packed tightly into measuring cup)

In a large bowl, mix the ground beef or pork, fish sauce, shoyu, toasted sesame oil, ground Szechuan peppercorns, cornstarch, grated ginger, grated garlic, and ground white pepper until evenly combined, then set aside. Combine the canola oil and jalapeño in a cold nonstick skillet or saucepan. Turn up the heat to medium and cook until the jalapeño is shriveled and almost crispy (you can partially cover the skillet to prevent splattering), ~2 min. Drain through a fine sieve, reserving the crispy jalapeño on a plate, then return the oil to the skillet. Add the ground meat mixture to the skillet, breaking it up into small chunks with a wooden spoon, until the meat is deeply browned and caramelized, ~10-15 min. Stir in the reserved crispy jalapeño and remove from the heat. Set aside.

Chile oil:
5 tbsp Szechuan chile flakes
1/2 star anise pod
1 tbsp ground coriander
1 tsp ground cumin
1/4 tsp curry powder
1 1/2 tbsp sesame seeds
1 c canola oil
3 scallions, smashed with the back of a knife and cut into 2" segments
4 garlic cloves, smashed
2 tbsp ground Szechuan peppercorns

In a spice grinder, combine the Szechuan chile flakes, star anise, ground coriander, ground cumin, curry powder, and sesame seeds and grind into a fine powder. Set aside. Combine the canola oil, scallions, and smashed garlic in a small cold saucepan. Cook over medium-low heat, until the alliums are deeply browned, ~3-5 min. Remove the solids with a slotted spoon, drain well, and discard. Transfer the ground spice mixture to the oil. Continue to cook over medium-low heat, stirring constantly, until the color of the oil turns from a bright red to a dark maroon, ~1-2 min. Turn off the heat and stir in the ground Szechuan peppercorns. Set aside.

Sauce mix:
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons medium white sesame paste (see headnote)
1/2 cup soy sauce
1 1/2 tablespoons smooth peanut butter
1 1/2 tablespoons light brown sugar
1 tablespoon chicken powder (or ground chicken bouillon)
1 1/2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar
8 garlic cloves, grated
Low-sodium chicken stock, for serving
Cooked noodles, such as ramen, for serving

In a clean large bowl, combine the cooked ground beef mixture, the entire batch of chile oil, sesame paste, shoyu, peanut butter, light brown sugar, chicken powder, balsamic vinegar, and grated garlic. Mix until thoroughly combined. Transfer to an airtight container and store in the refrigerator for up to 1 week, or divide the mixture into smaller portions in small resealable bags or airtight containers and store in the freezer for 4-6 months.


Assembly:
Low-sodium chicken stock, for serving
Cooked noodles, such as ramen, for serving
ultimate chile oil, for serving
Finely minced pickled jalapeño, for serving
Finely diced scallions, for serving

In a small saucepan over medium low, or in a microwave-safe bowl, mix equal parts of the dan dan noodle mix and chicken stock by volume until warmed through. (The ratio between sauce and noodle should be something in between noodle soup and noodles with sauce: If you want 1 c of sauce for your noodles, mix 1/2 c noodle mix with 1/2 c chicken stock.) Pour the warmed sauce over the cooked noodles. Top each serving with a tbsp of ultimate chile oil. Garnish with finely minced pickled jalapeño and diced scallions.

