Dolsot Bibimbap
  --Cook's Illustrated
  
Pickles:
1 c cider vinegar
2 tbsp sugar
1 1/2 tsp salt
1 cucumber, peeled, quartered lengthwise, seeded, and sliced thin on bias
4 oz (2 c) bean sprouts

Whisk vinegar, sugar, and salt together in medium bowl. Add cucumber and sprouts and toss to combine. Gently press on vegetables to submerge. covre and refrigerate for at least 30 min or up to 24 hr.

Chile Sauce:
1/4 c gochujang
3 tbsp water
2 tbsp toasted sesame oil
1 tsp sugar

Whisk all ingredients together in small bowl. Cover and set aside.

Rice:
2 1/2 c short grain white rice
2 1/2 c water
3/4 tsp salt

Bring rice, water, and salt to boil in medium saucepan over high heat. Cover, reduce heat to low, and cook for 7 min. Remove rice from heat and let sit, covered, until tender, ~15 min.

Vegetables:
1/2 c water
3 scallions, minced
3 tbsp shoyu
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tbsp sugar
1 tbsp vegetable oil, divided
3 carrots, peeled and shredded (2 c)
8 oz shiitake mushrooms, stemmed, caps sliced thin
10 oz bag curly leaf spinach, stemmed and coarsely chopped 

Stir together water, scallions, shoyu, garlic, and sugar. Heat 1 tsp oil in dutch oven over high heat until shimmering. Add carrots and stir until coated. Ad 1/3 c scallion mixture and cook, stirring frequently, until carrots are slightly softened and moisture has evaporated, 1-2 min. Using slotted spoon, transfer carrots to small bowl. Heat 1 tsp oil in now empty pot until shimmering. Add mushrooms and stir until coated with oil. Add 1/3 c scallion mixture and cook, stirring frequently, until mushrooms are tender and moisture has evaporated, 3-4 min. Using slotted spoon, transfer mushrooms to second small bowl. Heat remaining 1 tsp oil in now empty pot until shimmering. Add spinach and remaining scallion mixture and stir to coat spinach. Cook, stirring frequently, until spinach is completely wilted but still bright green, 1-2 min. Using slotted spoon, transfer spinach to third small bowl. Discard any remaining liquid and wipe out pot with paper towel. 

Bibimbap:
2 tbsp + 2 tsp vegetable oil
1 tbsp sesame oil
4 large eggs

Heat 2 tbsp vegetable oil and sesame oil in dutch oven over high heat until shimmering. Carefully add cooked rice and gently press into even layer. Cook, without stirring, until rice begins to form crust on bottom of pot, ~2 min. Using slotted spoon, transfer veggies to pot and arrange in piles that cover surface of rice. Reduce heat to low. While crust forms, heat 2 tsp vegetable oil in 10" nonstick skillet over low heat for 5 min. Crack eggs into small bowl. Pour eggs into skillet; cover and cook (~2 min for runny yolk, 2 1/2 min for soft but set, and 3 min for firmly set yolks). Slide eggs onto vegetables in pot. Drizzle 2 tbsp chile sauce over eggs. Without disturbing crust, use wooden spoon to stir rice, vegetables, and eggs until combined. Just before serving, scrape large pieces of crust from bottom of pot and tir into rice. Serve in individual bowls, passing pickles and extra sauce.



Notes: Sub kimchi for pickles. Can make pickles, sauce, and vegetables a day ahead, just warm veggies to room temp before adding to rice. Can also bring pot to table before stirring vegetables and egg into rice.
