Dudhi Kofta Curry

Dumplings:
2 lbs zucchini, trimmed
2 tsp coarse kosher or sea salt
1 small red onion, peeled and coarsely chopped
2 tbsp raw cashews
4 large garlic cloves, peeled
4 lengthwise slices fresh ginger, each 2" long, 1" wide, and 1/8" thick
4 fresh green thai, serrano, or cayenne chiles, stems removed
1/4 c chickpea flour
2 tbsp rice flour
2 tbsp finely chopped fresh cilantro leaves and tender stems
oil for deep frying

Shred zucchini (food processor or box grater) Put shreds in a large bowl and mix in salt. Let stand for about 30 min. Meanwhile, place onion, cashews, garlic, ginger, and chiles in a food processor. Pulse until mixture forms a chunky paste. Wrap zucchini in a clean kitchen towel and squeeze out all the liquid. Transfer squash back to bowl and stir in onion paste mixture until combine. Add flours and cilantro and stir to combine into a slightly wet batter. Working quickly place a heaping tbsp of batter in the palm of your hand and squeeze it to condense it into a ball; transfer dumpling to a baking sheet. Repeat with remaining batter to make ~25 dumplings. The longer you let the batter stand without shaping it, the more liquid the squash will release, making it difficult to handle. Adding more flour with make it manageable but make the dumplings too dense. Pour oil into a wok, dutch oven, or medium saucepan to a depth of ~1"/ Set over medium heat until a candy thermometer registers 300F. Line a baking sheet with paper towels. Once oil is hot, gently slide dumplings into pan, working in batches. Fry, turning occasionally, until they are honey brown and crisp, ~5 min. Remove with slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. 

Sauce:
2 tbsp ghee or vegetable oil
1 tsp cumin seeds
1 small red onion, peeld and coarsely chopped
4 fresh green thai, cayenne, or serrano chiles, stems removed, coarsely chopped (do not remove seeds)
2 tbsp raw cashews
2 tbsp golden raisins
14.5 oz can diced tomatoes
1 tsp coarse kosher or sea salt
1/4 tsp ground tumeric
1/2 c half and half
1 tsp garam masala
2 tbsp finely chopped fresh cilantro leaves and tender stems, for garnish

Heat ghee in a large saucepan over medium high heat. Add cumin seeds and cook until they sizzle and darken, 5-10 s. Immediately add onionns, chiles, cashews, and raisins. Stir fry until onion is soft and golden, chiles are pungent, cashews have turned honey brown, and raisins have swelled and darkened, ~5 min. Add tomatoes, salt, and tumeric to the pan, stirring once or twice to combine. Transfer to a blender and puree, scraping the inside as needed, to make a smooth and spicy sweet red sauce. Pour sauce back into saucepan. Pour 1/2 c water into blender and swish it around; add this liquid to the pan. Stir in half and half and garam masala. Gently add dumplings to sauce, making sure they do not break apart. Heat curry over medium heat until sauce starts to bubble, then lower heat, cover pan, and simmer until dumplings are warmed through and have absorbed some of the sauce, ~5 min; do not stir. Sprinkle with cilantro before serving.


The sauce and dumplings can be prepared a day ahead and refrigerated separately.
