Eggplant Ragout with Creamy Polenta

Polenta:
3 c water
2 c milk
1 c polenta
8 tbsp cold unsalted butter, cubed
1/2 tsp freshly ground white pepper
kosher salt to taste

In a large pot, bring the water and milk to a simmer. Using a whisk, slowly add the polenta, vigorously stirring to avoid clumps. Reduce heat to low and allow to cook until the polenta is plump and swollen, not grainy, 40-50 min. Whisk every 7-10 min to ensure nothing sticks to the bottom of the pot or burns. Once fully cooked, whisk in cubes of butter one at a time until the butter is fully melted and emulsified into the polenta. Season with white pepper and salt.

Ragout:
1 lb heirloom baby eggplants
1/2 (8oz) large eggplant, peeled
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 shallots, peeled and quartered
1 c olive oil
1/4 c red wine
14 oz canned whole tomatoes
2 tbsp lemon juic
1 tbsp honey
2 tbsp basil leaves, chiffonade
1 tbsp parsley leaves, chiffonade
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

Slice the baby eggplants into 1/2" thick coins and then roughly chop the large eggplant. Place the peeled eggplant in a food processor along with the garlic and shallows, and puree until smooth. In a large saute pan over medium high heat, add 1/4 c of olive oil. Once it's is hot and the pan is just below smoking, add the coins of baby eggplant. Sear cut sides down until deep golden brown, 5 min on each side. Remove from the heat and reserve for later use. In the same pan, heat 1/2 c of olive oil over low heat, add eggplant puree and sweat until all the moisture has evaporated, 15-18 min. Deglaze the pan with the red wine and simmer until the wine has completely reduced, 5-7 min. Add the canned tomatoes and brak up the large chunks with a wooden spoon. Mix in the reserved seared eggplant, lemon juice, and honey, and simmer for another 15 min. Turn off the heat and stir in the basil and parsley, the remaining 1/4 c olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. 

Garnish:
freshly grated parmesan cheese
basil leaves
oregano leaves
wild onion blossoms (can sub minced chives)
lemon wedges

Notes:
Can sub mushrooms or squashes for the eggplant. Can swap out polenta and use rice or pasta (basically starch)
