Enchiladas Mineras
  --Rick Martinez

8 tortillas de maíz (corn tortillas)
5 tbsp vegetable oil, divided
2 1/4 c homemade chicken stock or store-bought low-sodium chicken broth
5 large chiles guajillos (1 oz/30 g), stemmed and seeded
2 medium chiles cascabeles (0.25 oz/5 g), stemmed and seeded
2 garlic cloves, lightly crushed
2 tsp kosher salt (0.5 oz/16 g)
1/2 tsp dried oregano, preferably Mexican
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
4 large chicken thighs (6 oz, 170 g each)
2 medium yukon gold potatoes (12 oz/340 g), peeled and cut into 2" pieces
3 medium carrots (8 oz/226 g), cut into 2" pieces
1/2 large white onion (7 oz/200 g), sliced
1 tbsp apple cider vinegar
12 oz (340g) queso fresco or Cotija, crumbled

Brush both sides of the tortillas with 2 tbsp of the oil. Heat a large skillet over medium-high. Working in batches, sear the tortillas until they’re lightly browned and starting to crisp, for ~1 min per side. Set the tortillas aside until you're ready to assemble the dish. In a medium saucepan, bring the broth, chiles guajillos, chiles cascabeles, garlic, salt, oregano, and pepper to a boil. Remove from the heat, cover, and let sit until the chiles are soft, for 30 min. Transfer to a blender and puree until smooth. In a large heavy pot over medium-high, heat 2 tbsp of the oil. Cook the chicken, skin-side down, until deep golden brown, for 5-6 min. Turn the pieces over and brown the other side, for 5-6 min more. Transfer the chicken to a plate. If there isn’t at least 1 tbsp of fat in the pot, add the remaining 1 tbsp oil along with the potatoes, carrots, and onion. Cook, tossing occasionally, until the vegetables are lightly browned, for 4-6 min. Pour the chile puree into the pot with the vegetables; scrape up any browned bits from the bottom of the pot. Nestle the chicken into the sauce and bring the mixture to a boil. Cover the pot, reduce the heat to low, and simmer until the chicken is completely tender and cooked through, for ~30 min. Stir the vinegar into the pot and mound the chicken and vegetables on one side so there’s room on the other side to dip the tortillas into the sauce. Using tongs and working with one tortilla at a time, dip into the chile sauce, turning to coat, and cook in the sauce until softened (they will soften more as they sit), for ~3 s per side. Transfer the tortillas to a baking sheet as you go. Spoon 2 tbsp of the queso fresco across the center of each tortilla and fold over like a taco. Divide the enchiladas among four plates and spoon more chile sauce over top. Top with lettuce, more onion, crema, and any remaining queso. Serve with the chicken, vegetables, remaining sauce, and pickled jalapeños.
