Falafel
  --Cook's Illustrated

8 oz dried chickpeas, picked over and rinsed
3/4 c fresh cilantro leaves and stems
3/4 c fresh parsley leaves
1/2 onion, chopped fine
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 1/2 tsp ground coriander
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp salt
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper
1/4 c ap flour
2 tsp baking powder
2 qt vegetable oil, for frying

For the Falafel: Place chickpeas in large container and cover with water by 2 to 3 inches. Soak at room temperature for at least 8 hours or up to 24 hours. Drain well. Process cilantro, parsley, onion, garlic, coriander, cumin, salt, and cayenne in food processor for 5 s. Scrape down sides of bowl. Continue to process until mixture resembles pesto, ~5 s longer. Add chickpeas and pulse 6 times. Scrape down sides of bowl. Continue to pulse until chickpeas are coarsely chopped and resemble sesame seeds, ~6 more pulses. Transfer mixture to large bowl and set aside. Whisk flour and 1/3 c water in bowl until no lumps remain. Microwave, whisking every 10 s, until mixture thickens to stiff, smooth, pudding-like consistency that forms mound when dropped from end of whisk into bowl, 40-80 s. Stir baking powder into flour paste. Add flour paste to chickpea mixture and, using rubber spatula, mix until fully incorporated. Divide mixture into 24 pieces and gently roll into golf ball–size spheres, transferring spheres to parchment paper–lined rimmed baking sheet once formed. (Formed falafel can be refrigerated for up to 2 hr.) Heat oil in large Dutch oven over medium-high heat to 325F. Add half of falafel and fry, stirring occasionally, until deep brown, ~5 min. Adjust burner, if necessary, to maintain oil temperature of 325 degrees. Using slotted spoon or wire skimmer, transfer falafel to paper towel–lined baking sheet. Return oil to 325F and repeat with remaining falafel. Serve immediately with tahini sauce.

Tahini Sauce:
1/2 c tahini
1/3 c plain Greek yogurt
1/4 c lemon juice (2 lemons)
1/4 c water
salt

Whisk tahini, yogurt, and lemon juice in medium bowl until smooth. Whisk in water to thin sauce as desired. Season with salt to taste; set aside. (Sauce can be refrigerated for up to 4 days. Let come to room temperature and stir to combine before serving.)



Notes: An equal amount of chickpea flour can be substituted for the ap flour; if using, increase the water to 1/2 c. Do not substitute canned or quick-soaked chickpeas; they will make stodgy falafel.
