Spring Vegetable Fideos
   - Ken Oringer

Pickled Green Almonds:
½ c white distilled vinegar
½ c granulated sugar
1 tbsp kosher salt
½ c green almonds, thinly sliced

In a small saucepan, combine the vinegar, sugar and salt over high heat. Bring to a boil and cook until the sugar and salt have dissolved, 1 min. Place the green almonds in a heatproof bowl and pour the vinegar mixture over top, then let cool completely.

Morel Ragù:
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 shallot, minced
8 oz morel mushrooms, cleaned and halved
2 tbsp chicken stock
Kosher salt, to taste

In a medium skillet, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add the shallots and cook until softened, 1-2 min. Add the morels and cook until softened, 2-3 min. Pour in the chicken stock and simmer until the liquid is nearly evaporated, 2 min more. Season with salt and set aside.

Fideos:
Kosher salt, to taste
4 jumbo white asparagus, tough stems trimmed
¼ c olive oil, plus more for garnish
1 garlic clove, minced
½ yellow onion, finely chopped
2 tbsp tomato paste
1 tsp smoked paprika
1 lb angel-hair pasta, broken into 3" pieces
2 c chicken stock
2 c lobster or seafood stock
1 small fennel bulb, cut into ¼" wedges, fronds reserved for garnish
8 scallions, whites and greens thinly sliced and separated by color, divided
1 head Tardivo radicchio, cut into 1" pieces
Thinly sliced radishes, for garnish
Lemon zest, for garnish
Aioli or mayonnaise, for garnish

Bring a medium pot of salted water to a boil and blanch the white asparagus just until tender, 4 min. Transfer to a bowl and rinse with cold water until cooled. Slice the asparagus ¼" thick and set aside. In a 15" paella pan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the garlic and onions, and sweat until softened, 2-3 min. Add the tomato paste and smoked paprika, and cook until the tomato paste is caramelized and the mixture is fragrant, 1 min. Add the pasta to the pan and carefully stir to toast the dry noodles, coating in the onion mixture, 1 min. Add the stocks and fennel, and bring to a simmer. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the pasta has softened 4-5 min. dd the morel ragù, blanched asparagus and sliced scallion whites, and stir to incorporate. Season with salt. Continue to cook, without stirring, until the pasta is tender and has formed a crust on the bottom of the pan, another 4 min. Adjust the seasoning with more salt if needed. Drain the green almonds and scatter them over the fideos, along with the Tardivo radicchio. Garnish with fennel fronds, sliced scallion greens, radishes, lemon zest and aioli. Drizzle with olive oil, then serve.

