Flaky Pastry with...
  --Mandy Lee
  
Fillings - either Chocolate + Mochi or Apple + Custard

Mochi:
3/4 c (85 g) sticky rice flour
2 tbsp (25 g) light brown sugar
1/3 c + 1 tbsp (95 g) whole milk

Whisk together sticky rice flour, light brown sugar and whole milk in a microwave-safe bowl until even. Microwave the mixture on medium power for 45 s interval for ~4-5 times, stirring with a fork in between, until the mixture comes together as a sticky and stretchy dough. Keep stirring and kneading if you will with a fork until the dough is very even and bouncy. Cover with plastic wrap and chill in the fridge until needed. 

Chocolate:
3.5 oz (100 g) bittersweet chocolate
1/3 c (65 g) dark brown sugar
1/8 tsp ground cinnamon
2 tbsp (32 g) peanut butter

In a food-processor, pulse bittersweet chocolate, dark brown sugar and ground cinnamon until coarsely ground. Add peanut butter and pulse until the mixture resembles wet sand. Keep in the fridge until needed.


Apple & Custard:
3 (~1 lb) medium Fuji apples, or another firm and sweet apple, like Gala or Pink Lady
1 1/2 tbsp + 1/4 tsp lemon juice, divided
1/4 c (50 g) light brown sugar
1/2 tbsp fragrant honey, like clover, buckwheat or orange blossom
sea salt
1 c (240 g) whole milk
1/2 vanilla bean, split and scraped, or 1 tsp vanilla extract
3 large egg yolks
1/4 c (50 g) granulated sugar
3 tbsp (25 grams) ap flour
2 tbsp (32 g) unsalted butter

Peel, core, and chop the apples into 1/2" pieces. In a small pot, combine apple, 1 1/2 tbsp lemon juice, light brown sugar, honey, and a pinch of sea salt. Cook over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally, until the apples become translucent and soft, and the liquid has almost totally evaporated, ~15-20 min. Use an immersion blender (or transfer to a food-processor,) and pulse until the apples are mostly puréed, but not completely smooth. Transfer to a bowl and place in the freezer to flash-chill until cold, ~1 hr, stirring it every 15 min speeds up the process. (Alternatively, make the purée up to 24 hr in advance and chill, covered, in the refrigerator until ready to use.) In a small pot, whisk together the milk, vanilla bean scrapings, egg yolks, granulated sugar, and flour until completely smooth (purée in a blender or in the pot with an immersion blender to expedite this process). Cook the mixture over medium-low heat, stirring constantly, until it starts to thicken and bubbles slowly form on the surface, ~15 min. Turn off heat immediately, then stir in butter, remaining 1/4 tsp lemon juice, and a pinch of sea salt until the custard is silky and smooth. Transfer to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap that directly touches the surface of the custard (to prevent a skin from forming). Place in the freezer to flash-chill until cold, ~1 hr (stirring it every 15 min speeds up the process. (Alternatively, make the purée up to 24 hr in advance and chill, covered, in the refrigerator until ready to use.


Failproof flakey pastry:
1 1/2 c (195 g) ap flour
1/2 tsp sea salt
1/3 c + 2 tbsp (110 g) water
1 1/2 tbsp (21 g) canola oil
5 tbsp ~ 7 tbsp (70~91 grams) unsalted butter, cold (see note*)
1 egg, beaten

Inside a large bowl, combine flour, sea salt, water and canola oil, and mix until a craggy but even and cohesive dough forms. There no need to knead it further because we don't want much gluten to develop. Lightly flour the dough and wrap it in parchment, then flash-freeze in the freezer for 15 min until the dough is cool to the touch. Transfer the chilled dough onto a well-floured work surface and roll it out into a rectangle  ~8x11". Evenly arrange the sliced butter to cover the bottom two-thirds of the rectangular dough, leaving ~3/4" border all around. Working quickly (especially if it’s warm in your kitchen, as the butter will soften fast,) brush some of the beaten egg over the margin. Fold the dough like an envelope: fold the exposed top third halfway over the buttered area. Gently smooth the folded area to eliminate any big air pockets, then fold the bottom, buttered third of the dough over so you’re left with a rectangle roughly 8x3 2/3". Gently smooth out air pockets then pinch outer edges of the dough together to make sure they’re sealed. Trim any excess edges for a neater dough-envelope. Rotate the dough 90 degrees, dust with just a bit of flour if the dough is sticking, then roll it out into another 8x11" rectangle. (This would only happen if the temperature in the room is warm, but some butter may squeeze out from the edges but don’t panic, simply smear it back onto the dough wherever, dust with a bit more flour, and keep rolling. If any large air bubbles surface, poke them with a wooden skewer.) Dust the dough with more flour, then fold it like an envelope as you did before. Repeat, then fold the dough like an envelope once more, for a total of 3 folds. Place the dough on a small sheet pan or plate and transfer to the freezer to chill for 15-20 min. Place the chilled dough on a lightly floured work surface, seam-side down, and roll out into a rectangle ~10x15". Trim all the edges to make it a perfect rectangle. Spread the apple purée or chocolate-mixture in the middle of the pastry, covering an area little more than one third, and leaving a 3/4" margin. Gent OR Place the mochi sheet on top, which should fit perfectly.y spread the vanilla custard on top of the apple purée in ~3/4" layer (you may have extra left which is great for eating from a spoon) OR place the mochi sheet on top, which should fit perfectly. Brush more beaten egg around the margin, then fold the left and right sides of the dough towards the middle, and over the fillings (the dough should partially overlap). Pinch the top and bottom edges to seal tightly, then flip the whole thing over so the seam-side is down. Chill in the fridge while you preheat the oven (but no longer). Preheat the oven to 400F (fan-on convection oven) or 425F in a conventional oven. When ready to bake, brush the surface of the pastry with more beaten egg, and cut a few slits on the top to allow steam to escape. Bake for 35 min, rotating halfway, until golden-brown all over. Let cool on a rack for 20 min before slicing.



Notes: Depending on your texture preference, you can use a range of 5-7 tbsp of butter in the dough: the more butter, the more delicate, lace-like flakes appear in the finished pastry. I highly recommend using a large block of butter instead of smaller sticks, as it’s easier to cut a few pieces from the large block with a bench scraper (or knife).
