Flourless Chocolate Cake    gf
  --Kat Boytsova

3/4 c (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter + more for pan
12 oz good quality bittersweet chocolate
6 large eggs
1 1/4 c sugar
1 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp vanilla
1/2 c raw hazelnuts
1 c cold heavy cream
powdered sugar for garnish

Place rack in middle of oven; preheat to 325F. Generously butter bottom and sides of 9" round cake pan. Line bottom with parchment paper, making sure there are no air bubbles. Coarsely chop chocolate into 1/2" pieces & transfer to medium saucepan. Add butter to saucepan and cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, until butter and chocolate are melted, ~8 min (Can also microwave). Remove from heat and let cool to room temp, ~15 min. Beat eggs, sugar, salt, and vanilla in a large bowl with electric mixer until pale yellow and fluffy, ~8 min. It's ready when the beaters start to create a ribboning effect and when lifted, the mixture should leave a trail as it falls back on itself. Pour chocolate into mixture. Gently fold together with a rubber spatula until batter is well combined and homogeneous - do not overmix. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until a thin, dry crust has formed on surface and cake has risen and is firmed up, but still wobbles ever so slightly in the middle, 30-35 min. Transfer pan to wire rack and let cool in pan ~10 min. While cake cools, roast hazelnuts on a small rimmed baking sheet until lightly browned, 10-12 min. Transfer to cutting board, let cool, then coarsely chop. Place a flat cutting board or large plate over pan. Using a towel to protect your hands, swiftly invert plate and pan; cake should release on its own. Lift pan off, then peel off parchment. Gently place a flat platter or cake stand onto cake and invert again. Let cake cool to room temp. Vigorously whisk cold cream in a medium bowl until medium peaks form. Sift powdered sugar over cooled cake. Serve cake with whipped cream and hazelnuts on the side. Cake can be made (without powdered sugar) 1 day ahead, covered in plastic wrap and stored at room temp.


Notes: several reviews indicate that bake time listed is insufficient
