French Onion Soup Meatballs
  --Rachel Mansfield
  
Onions:
1 tbsp olive oil or avocado oil
2 large sweet white onions, thinly sliced
3 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
2 bay leaves
1 tsp thyme leaves
1/3 c dry white wine
2 tbsp unsalted butter

In a large oven-safe skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat and add the onions, garlic, bay leaves, and salt and cook, stirring frequently, until the onions are deeply golden (~45 min). Add the thyme and black pepper and cook until the herbs are fragrant, ~1 min. Add the white wine and butter, scraping up the bottom of the pan to loosen any dark bits. Remove onions from skillet and discard the bay leaves and allow the onions to cool slightly. Rinse and wipe out the skillet and set aside

Meatballs:
1 lb ground grass-fed beef
1 large egg
1/2 c almond flour (or gf breadcrumbs)
Sea salt and black pepper to taste

In a large bowl, combine the ground beef, egg, flour or breadcrumbs, salt, and pepper. Once the onions are cool enough to handle, roughly chop 1/3 of the onions and add them to the meatball mixture. Use your clean hands or meat handling gloves to mix everything together until combined. Divide the mixture up into 12 roughly 1 1/2" balls and set aside. Heat 2 tbsp of olive oil in the reserved skillet over medium-high heat. Add the meatballs, making sure to space them evenly, and cook until browned on all sides, 10-12 min. 

Sauce:
1 tbsp gluten-free flour (or sub regular flour if not gluten-free)
2 c chicken broth
1 tsp dijon mustard
1 tsp Worcestershire
6 oz gruyere cheese

Sprinkle flour over the meatballs and toss gently until the flour is cooked, ~1 min. Add the chicken broth, remaining reserved onions, mustard, and Worcestershire. Stir well, and let simmer until the sauce has thickened and grown slightly darker in color, ~10 min. Preheat the broiler on low. Sprinkle the Gruyere over the meatballs and sauce and broil until the cheese is melted, ~2 min. Serve with toasted baguette slices or as is. Garnish with more thyme if desired.


Notes: can use other ground meats; if you’d rather bake the meatballs, pop them in the oven at 400F for 15-20 min


