Fresh Fruit Tart
  --Cook's Illustrated
  
Crust: 
1 1/3 c (6 2/3 oz) ap flour
1/4 c (1 3/4 oz) sugar
1/8 tsp salt
10 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp water

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat to 350F. Whisk flour, sugar, and salt together in a bowl. Melt butter in small saucepan over medium high heat, swirling saucepan occasionally, until foaming subsides. Cook, stirring and scraping bottom of saucepan with heatproof spatula, until milk solids are dark golden brown and butter has nutty aroma, 1-3 min. Remove saucepan from heat and add water. When bubbling subsides, transfer butter to bowl with flour and stir until well combined. Transfer dough to 9" tart pan with removable bottom and let dough rest until just warm, ~10 min. Use your hands to evenly press and smooth dough over bottom and up side of pan, using 2/3 for bbottom and remaining 1/3 fir side. Place pan on wire rack set in rimmed baking sheet and bake until crust is golden brown, 25-30 min, rotating pan halfway through. Let crust cool completely, ~1 hr. Cooled crust can be wrapped loosely in plastic wrap and stored ata room temp for up to 24 hrs.

Tart:
1/3 c (2 oz) white baking chips
1/4 c heavy cream
1 tsp grated lime zest + 7 tsp juice (~2 limes)
pinch salt
6 oz (3/4 c) mascarpone cheese, room temp
2 ripe peaches, peeled
20 oz (4 c) raspberries, blackberries, and blueberries
1/3 c apricot reserves

Microwave baking chips, cream, lime zest, and salt in medium bowl, stirring every 10 s, until baking chips are melted, 30-60 s. Whisk in 1/3 mascarpone, then whisk in 6 tsp lime juice and remaining mascarpone until smooth, Transfer filling to tart shell and spread into even layer. Place peach, stem side down on cutting board. Placing knife just to side of pit, cut down to remove 1 side of peach. Turn peach 180 degrees and cut off opposite side. Cut off remaining 2 sides. Place pieces cut side down and slice 1/4" thick. Repeat with second peach. Select best 24 slices. Even space 8 berries around outer edge of tart. Using berries as guide, arrange 8 sets of 3 peach slices in filling, slightly overlapping slices with rounded sides up, starting at center and ending on right side of each berry. Arrange remaining berries in attractive pattern between peach slices, covering as much of filling as possible and keeping fruit in even layer. Microwave preserves and remaining 1 tsp lime juice in small bowl until fluid, 20-30 s. Strain mixture through fine mesh strainer. Using pastry brush, gently dab mixture over fruit, avoiding crust. Refrigerate tart for 30 min. Remove outer metal ring of tart pan. Slide thin metal spatula between tart and pan bottom to loosen tart, then carefully slide tart onto serving platter. Let tart sit at room temp for 15 min. Using peaches as guide, cut tart into wedges and serve. Tart can be refrigerated up to 24 hr. If refrigerated for more than 1 hr, let tart sit at room temp for 1 hr before serving.


Notes: Do not substitute white chocolate bar for baking chips otherwise filling will be loose.
