Fried Chicken Sandwich with Pickled VEgetable Slaw

Chicken:
1 c buttermilk
1 tbsp kosher salt
1 garlic clove, minced
4x6oz boneless, skinless chicken breasts

In a bowl, toss together the buttermilk, salt, garlic, and chicken breasts. Refrigerate for at least 1 hr.

Pickled Slaw:
1 c thinly sliced red cabbage, divided
1 c thinly sliced green cabbage, divided
1 carrot, peeled and julienned
1 serrano chile, stemmed, seeded, and julienned
1/2 red onion, thinly sliced
1 1/2 c vhite wine vinegar
1 1/2 c water
2 tbsp salt + more to taste
2 tbsp sugar
1 tbsp whole coriander seeds, toasted
1 tsp celery seeds
1/4 c mayo
1 tbsp honey
freshly ground pepper, to taste

In a medium bowl, toss together 1/2 c each of red and green cabbage with the carrot, chile, and red onion, and set aside. In a small saucepan, bring the vinegar, water, salt, sugar, coriander seeds, and celery seeds to a boil. Remove from the heat and pour over the tossed vegetables. Let cool completely, then drain, discarding the pickling liquid. Toss the pickled vegetables with the remaining cabbage, mayo and honey. Season with salt and pepper, and set aside.

Special Sauce:
1/2 c mayo
1/4 c ketchup
2 tbsp dijon mustard
2 tsp chile paste

Whisk all the ingredients together in a small bowl. Set aside.

Sandwich:
1 c ap flour
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tsp moked paprika
1 tsp kosher salt
2 eggs
4 c canola oil
4 potato rolls
1 c dill pickle slices

In a small bowl, whisk together the flour, garlic powder, smoked paprika, and salt. In a separate small bowl, beat the eggs. Remove the chicken breasts from the marinade, scraping off the majority of the liquid. One breast at a time, dredge in the flour mixture, coat in beaten egg, then return to the flour mixture for a second coating. Place each breast on a plate until ready to fry. Line a plate with paper towels. In a high sided 12" skillet, heat the canola oil to 350F. Panfry the chicken breasts, flipping once, until golden brown and cooked to an internal temp of 165F, 4-5 min per side. Transfer to the paper towel lined plate to drain. Spread the bottom half of the buns with the special sauce and layer with dill pickle slices. Top each with a piece of fried chicken, a pile of slaw, and the remaining bun tops. Serve immediately.
