Funfetti Napoleon Cake

Puff Pastry:
17.3 oz package (2 9" square sheets) puff pastry, defrosted and halved lengthwise
2 tbsp confectioners' sugar

Preheat the oven to 425F and line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Place 2 strips of puff pastry, 2" apart, on each sheet tray and prick all over with a fork. Using a fine mesh sieve, dust both sides of the puff pastry with the confectioners' sugar. Bake until golden brown and the sugar just begins to melt, 12-15 min. Remove the baking sheets and lightly press another baking sheet on top of each one to flatten slightly. Remove the top baking sheet and allow the pastries to cool completely.

Filling:
2 c marscapone
1/2 c confectioners' sugar
1 tsp vanilla
1/3 c heavy cream, whisked to stiff peaks
1/3 c rainbow sprinkles

In a medium bowl, mix together the mascarpone, confectioners' sugar and vanilla until smooth. Carefully fold in the whipped cream. Chill until ready to use.

Icing:
1 c confectioners' sugar
3 tbsp milk
2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cool
2 tsp corn syrup
red, blue, yellow, and green food coloring

In a small bowl, whisk together the confectioners' sugar, milk, melted butter and corn syrup. Divide ½ cup of the icing between 4 small bowls, with 1½ tablespoons of icing in each. Add 3 to 4 drops of food coloring into each bowl and stir to incorporate, leaving you with a bowl each of red, blue, yellow and green icing. Transfer the icings to separate piping bags and set aside.


Assemble
Right before, fold the sprinkles into the marscpapone misture and trasnfer to a piping bag. On a platter, lay 1 piece of puff pastry down and pipe 1/3 of the filling, covering the entire surface. Repeat this 2 more times. On the baking sheet with the final pieace of puff, spread the white icing over the entire surface. Working quickly, alternate piping thin lines of each of the colors, use a toothpick to drag the lines making an arrow pattern. Using a large offset spatula, lift the puff pastry and place on top of the rest. Slice and serve
