General Tso's Cauliflower

Sauce:
2 tbsp sesame oil
1 tbsp vegetable oil
10 garlic cloves, minced
3" ginger knob, peeled and minced
1/2 c soy sauce
1/2 c granulated sugar
1/4 c shaoxing wine
1/4 c rice wine vinegar
1 tbsp ketchup
1/2 c water
1/4 c cornstarch

In a medium saucepan, heat the oils over medium heat. Add the garlic and ginger, and sweat until softened, 4-5 min. Whisk in the shoyu, sugar, vinegar, wine, and ketchup, then bring to a boil. Meanwhile, whisk together the water and cornstarch into a smooth slurry. Once boiling, whisk the slurry into the saucepan and cook until thickened, 2-3 min. Transfer to a large skillet and set aside.

Cauliflower
1 large (3lbs) cauliflower, cut into small clorets
oil for frying
1 c ap flour
1 c rice flour
1 c cornstarch
1 tsp baking powder
2 c soy milk
sesame seeds for garnish
thinly sliced scallions for garnish

Bring a large pot of salted water to boil and prepare an ice bath. Blanch the cauliflower in the boiling water for 2 min, then transfer to the ice bath to cool. Drain well. In a large, heavy-bottomed pot, heat 2" of oil to 350F and line a plate with paper towels. In a large bowl, whisk together the flours, cornstarch, and baking powder until incorporated. Transfer 1/3 of the mixture to another large bowl and whisk in the soy milk. Add the florets to the milk mixture and toss to coat. Drain the excess liquid and dredge in the flour mixture, being sure to shake off any excess. Working in batches, fry the cauliflower until crips and golden, 4-5 min per batch, then transfer to the prepared plate to drain. Heat the skillet with the reserved sauce over medium heat to warm through. Add the fried cauliflower and toss to coat. Transfer to a serving plate and garnish with sesame seeds and scallions.



Variant
  --Bill, The Woks of Life
Cauliflower:
1 small head cauliflower
2 tsp cornstarch
1 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
1 tsp sesame oil
1/8 tsp white pepper
1/4 c water
1 c rice flour
2 tsp toasted sesame seeds
2-3 c peanut or canola oil 

Cut the cauliflower into 1-2" (3-5cm) chunks. Mix the cornstarch, baking soda, salt, sesame oil, white pepper, water, and three quarters of the rice flour in a large bowl until it forms a batter. Toss the cauliflower into the batter, and fold together until the cauliflower is well-coated. Sprinkle the remaining rice flour over the cauliflower, and stir until everything is sticking to it. There should be no more batter at the bottom of the bowl. If there is, just add a little bit more rice flour. If the batter looks dry or crumbly, add a teaspoon or two of water. Sprinkle the toasted sesame seeds evenly over the cauliflower. Heat the oil to 375F/190C in a cast iron pan or small pot. Fry the cauliflower in batches until light golden brown and crunchy (~3 min), and transfer to a baking sheet lined with paper towels. To make the cauliflower extra crispy, fry it for a second time in batches for ~20 s or until golden brown, and drain on paper towels.

Sauce:
1 tbsp peanut or canola oil
2 tsp ginger (finely minced)
2 cloves garlic (finely minced)
5 whole dried red chili peppers (optional)
1/2 tbsp Shaoxing wine
1/2 tsp sesame oil
1 1/2 tbsp shoyu
2 tsp rice vinegar
2 tbsp sugar
1 c water (or stock)
1 tbsp cornstarch (mixed with 1 tbsp water)
1 scallion (cut at an angle into 1/2" pieces)

Heat 1 tbsp oil in your wok over medium heat. Add the minced ginger, and fry for 15 s. Add the garlic and dried red pepper. Stir for 10 s. Add the Shaoxing wine, and immediately add the sesame oil, shoyu, rice vinegar, sugar, and water (or stock). Turn the heat down to low, letting the entire mixture simmer. Add the cornstarch slurry gradually to the sauce while stirring constantly, and simmer for 20 s. The sauce should be thick enough to coat a spoon. Add the cauliflower and scallions, and toss the entire mixture until everything is well-coated in the sauce. Serve!


