Gluten Free Cinnamon Rolls
  --Patty Catalano

Rolls:
Cooking spray
1 c lukewarm whole milk (~105F)
1/4 oz package active dry yeast (2 1/4 tsp)
1/2 c + 1 tbsp granulated sugar, divided
1 large egg
5 tbsp unsalted butter, melted, cooled, and divided
3 c gluten-free flour blend, such as Bob’s Red Mill Gluten-Free 1-to-1 Baking Flour + more for dusting
2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp salt

Coat a 9" round metal cake pan with cooking spray; set aside. Pour the milk into a medium mixing bowl. Sprinkle the yeast and 1 tbsp of sugar over the milk and set aside until the yeast dissolves and is bubbly, ~5 min. Add the egg and 4 tbsp melted and cooled butter to the yeast mixture. Place the flour, baking powder, salt, and 1/2 c sugar in a large bowl and whisk to combine. Add the flour mixture to the wet mixture and stir by hand until well-combined. The dough will be more of a thick, tacky batter than a stretchy dough — similar in appearance to cookie dough. Dust a piece of parchment paper with flour and scoop the dough onto the parchment. If the dough is too soft to roll out, set aside for 10 min to firm up. Roll the dough into a 10x16" rectangle (~1/4" thick). Position it so that the longer side faces you. 

Filling:
1/4 c sugar
1 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
3 tbsp unsalted butter, melted

Stir the sugar for the filling and cinnamon together in a small bowl; set aside. Brush the surface of the dough with melted butter, leaving a 1" border at the top. Sprinkle the cinnamon-sugar mixture evenly over the buttered dough. Roll the dough into a tight log and pinch the seam together at the top to seal. Turn the log so the seam side is down. Use a serrated knife to cut the dough crosswise into 12 (1 1/4") pieces. Place the rolls cut-side up in the prepared cake pan. Cover with a clean kitchen towel or plastic wrap and set aside in a warm place to rise for 1 hr. The buns will not double in size, but will soften and expand slightly. Arrange a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 350F. Once risen, brush the tops of the buns with the remaining 1 tbsp melted butter. Bake the buns until light golden-brown and a toothpick inserted in several spots comes out clean, ~30 min.

Glaze:
1 c powdered sugar
1 tbsp whole milk
pinch salt

Whisk all the glaze ingredients together in a small bowl until smooth. When the buns are ready, place the pan on a cooling rack and let cool for 2-3 min. Spoon the glaze evenly over the cinnamon buns before serving.


Notes:Cinnamon buns can be made up to 24 hr in advance. Arrange the buns in a baking dish, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate. Remove from the refrigerator 1 hr before baking, brush with melted butter, and then bake as instructed above. Alternatiely, freeze the buns on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Once frozen transfer to a zip-top freezer bag and freeze for up to 2 weeks. Transfer buns to the cake pan, thaw in the refrigerator overnight, then remove from the fridge 1 hr before baking according to instructions above.
