Gluten Free Fried Onions 
  --Nicole Hunn

1 large Spanish or Vidalia onion (~8 oz), peeled, halved and sliced thinly
1 1/2 c (12 fluid oz) buttermilk (or you can use 1 1/2 c milk soured with 1 1/2 tbsp white vinegar)
6 tbsp (53 g) basic xanthan gum-free flour blend (35 g superfine white rice flour + 12 g potato starch + 6 g tapioca starch/flour)
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/8 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 tbsp (12 g) sugar
vegetable oil, for frying

In a medium-size bowl, soak the sliced onion in the buttermilk for at least 10 and up to 30 min. While the onion is soaking, place the flour blend, salt, pepper and sugar in a large zip-top plastic bag. Seal the bag and shake to blend. While the onions are soaking, heat at least 2" of oil in a heavy-bottom saucepan until it reaches 350F. Once the onions have finished soaking, remove the onions from the buttermilk and allow them drain fully. Transfer the drained onions to the zip-top bag with the flour blend. Reseal the bag and shake the onions to coat them fully in the flour mixture. Remove the onions in batches from the bag of flour, shake off the excess, and place in the 350°F oil. Be sure not to crowd the onions in the frying oil or they will clump and not crispy properly. Fry until very light golden brown (~3 min). Drain on paper towels. Serve immediately.


V2
  --Michelle Blackwood
  
1 large onion, sliced and cur in strips
1 c unsweetened almond milk
1/2 c brown rice flour
1/4 c cornmeal
1/4 c nutritional yeast flakes
2 tbsp tapioca starch, or cornstarch
1/2 tsp paprika
1/4 tsp garlic powder
1/4 tsp Cayenne pepper
1 tsp salt, or to taste
cooking spray

Preheat oven 425F. Lind a baking sheet with parchment paper and lightly oil. Soak onions in milk for 5 min in a bowl. In another bowl, mix rice flour, cornmeal, nutritional yeast flakes, tapioca starch, paprika, garlic powder, cayenne pepper, and salt. Dip soaked onion strips into breading until well coated. Transfer to prepared baking sheet in a single layer. Repeat until all are breaded. Spray liberally with cooking oil spray. Bake for 30 min turning halfway or until golden brown and crispy. Remove from oven and cool completely. To store place french fried onions in a sealed container.


