Gingerbread Cookies
   -America's Test Kitchen

3 c ap flour
3/4 c packed dark brown sugar
1 tbsp cinnamon
1 tbsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp ground cloves
1/2 tsp salt
3/4 tsp baking soda
12 tbsp (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter cut into 12 pieces and softened slightly
3/4 c unsulphured molasses
2 tbsp milk

In food processor workbowl fitted with steel blade, process flour, sugar, cinnamon, ginger, cloves, salt, and baking soda until combined, ~10 s. Scatter butter pieces over flour mixture and process until mixture is sandy and resembles very fine meal, ~15 s. With machine running, gradually add molasses and milk; process until dough is evenly moistened and forms soft mass,~10 s. Scrape dough onto work surface; divide in half. Working with one portion of dough at a time, roll 1/4" thick between two large sheets of parchment paper. Leaving dough sandwiched between parchment layers, stack on cookie sheet and freeze until firm, 15-20 min. (Alternatively, refrigerate dough 2 hrs or overnight.) Adjust oven racks to upper- and lower-middle positions and heat oven to 350F. Line two cookie sheets with parchment paper. Remove one dough sheet from freezer; place on work surface. Peel off top parchment sheet and gently lay it back in place. Flip dough over; peel off and discard second parchment layer. Cut dough into 5" gingerbread people or 3" cookies, transferring shapes to prepared sheets, spacing 3/4" apart; set scraps aside. Repeat with remaining dough until cookie sheets are full. Bake cookies until set in centers and dough barely retains imprint when touched very gently with fingertip, 8-11 min, rotating cookie sheets front to back and switching positions top to bottom halfway through baking time. Do not overbake. Cool cookies on sheets 2 min, then transfer to wire rack; cool to room temp. Gather scraps; repeat rolling, cutting, and baking.


Notes:Because flour is not added during rolling, dough scraps can be rolled and cut as many times as necessary Don't overbake the cookies or they will be dry. Store soft gingerbread in a wide, shallow airtight container or tin with a sheet of parchment or waxed paper between each cookie layer. These cookies are best eaten within one week. If you make gingerbread people, this recipe will make about twenty.
