Glazed Spiral Cut Ham
  --America's Test Kitchen

Ham:
7-10 lb Spiral cut ham
1 large oven bag

Leaving ham's inner plastic or foil covering intact, place ham in large container and cover with hot tap water; set aside for 45 min. Drain and cover again with hot tap water; set aside for another 45 min. Adjust oven rack to lowest position and heat oven to 250 degrees. Unwrap ham; remove and discard plastic disk covering bone. Place ham in oven bag. Gather top of bag tightly so bag fits snugly around ham, tie bag, and trim excess plastic. Set ham cut-side down in large roasting pan and cut 4 slits in top of bag with paring knife. Bake ham until center registers 100 degrees on instant-read thermometer, 1 -1 1/2 hr (~10 min per lb). Remove ham from oven and increase oven temperature to 350F. Cut open oven bag and roll back sides to expose ham. Brush ham with 1/3 of glaze and return to oven until glaze becomes sticky, about 10 minutes (if glaze is too thick to brush, return to heat to loosen). Remove ham from oven, transfer to cutting board, and brush entire ham with another third of glaze. Let ham rest, loosely tented with foil, for 15 min. While ham rests, heat remaining third of glaze with 4-6 tbsp of ham juices until it forms thick but fluid sauce. Carve and serve ham, passing sauce at table.

Maple Glaze:
3/4 c maple syrup
1/2 c orange marmalade
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp Dijon mustard
1 tsp ground black pepper
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon

Combine all ingredients in small saucepan. Cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until mixture is thick, syrupy, and reduced to 1 c, 5-10 min; set aside.

Cherry Port Glaze:
1/2 c red wine (ruby port)
1/2 c cherry preserves
1 c packed dark brown sugar
1 tsp ground black pepper

Simmer port in small saucepan over medium heat until reduced to 2 tbsp, ~5 min. Add remaining ingredients and cook, stirring occasionally, until sugar dissolves and mixture is thick, syrupy, and reduced to 1 c, 5-10 min; set aside.



Notes: choose one glaze
