Gobhi Korma with Blackened Raisins
  --Meera Sodha

2 large cauliflowers (~3 1/2 lb in total)
Neutral oil, like grapeseed or canola
Salt
2 large yellow onions, thinly sliced
6 cloves of garlic
2 1/2" piece of ginger, peeled
3/4 tsp ground cardamom (or finely ground seeds from 8 pods)
1 tsp ground black pepper
2 tsp garam masala
1/2 tsp ground red chile (we used cayenne)
1 c ground almonds
2 tbsp honey
2 c plain Greek yogurt
3/4 - 1 1/4 c milk
A handful of raisins
A handful of sliced almonds

Heat the oven to 350F and (optionally) line two large baking pans with foil. Break the cauliflower into bite-sized florets and put into a large bowl. Pour 4 tbsp of oil over the florets (or mix enough to coat them properly), then sprinkle with 1 tsp of salt. Mix with your hands until they’re completely coated, and place in a single layer in the baking pans. Roast for 30-40 min, until tender and nicely browned in places. Check every 10 min—if the florets start to burn, cover them loosely with foil. In the meantime, put 3 tbsp of oil into a large frying pan over medium heat and, when hot, add the onions. Cook for 12-15 min, until soft and browning, then crush or grate in the garlic and grate in the ginger. Fry for a couple of minutes, then add the ground cardamom, black pepper, garam masala, ground red chile, ground almonds, honey and 1 1/4 tsp of salt (or to taste). Stir-fry for 3 min, then add the yogurt. Turn the heat down to low and cook for ~10 min, until the sauce starts to turn a rich gold. When the cauliflower is tender, tip it ino the sauce and stir to coat. Thin the sauce to the consistency of pouring yogurt with milk, and heat through. Check for seasoning, as you may need to add a little more salt. Finally, put a small frying pan over medium heat and, when hot, add the raisins and sliced almonds. Stir-fry until the raisins start to blacken and puff up and the almonds turn golden brown, then take off the heat. To serve, scatter the raisins and toasted almonds over the top of the cauliflower, and serve with rice or chapatis.



Notes: 
