Grandma Pie
  --Ananda Eidelstein

Dough:
1 tablespoon olive oil, plus more for brushing
1 3/4 c warm water (~110°F)
2 1/4 tsp active dry yeast (from a 1/4 oz. envelope)
4 1/2 c ap flour, spooned and leveled, plus more for work surface
4 tsp kosher salt
1 tbsp granulated sugar

Brush a large bowl with oil; set aside. Whisk water and yeast in a large bowl. Let stand for 10 min. Mix in oil. To mix dough with mixer: Place yeast mixture in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook. With mixer on low, gradually add flour, salt, and sugar; mix until no dry spots remain, ~2 min. Increase speed to medium; mix until dough makes a slapping sound against bowl and starts to climb up hook, ~5 min.To mix dough by hand: Add flour, salt, and sugar to yeast mixture, stirring with a rubber spatula until incorporated. Transfer dough to a lightly floured surface and knead, flouring surface as needed, until smooth but slightly sticky, ~10 min. Transfer dough to oiled bowl and turn to coat. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and place in a warm, draft-free area (on top of the refrigerator or in an off oven). Let rest until doubled in size, 1-1 1/2 hr. Gently punch down dough.


Pie:
2 tbsp olive oil
1 c crushed tomatoes
2 tbsp heavy cream
1 clove garlic, grated
1/2 tsp dried oregano + more for serving
1/2 tsp kosher salt
12 oz part-skim mozzarella cheese, shredded (~3 c)
3 oz sliced pepperoni (3/4 cup)
1 red onion, thinly sliced into rounds
Crushed red pepper, for serving

Preheat oven to 500 F with rack in lower third. Brush a large rimmed baking sheet with oil. Using your fingertips, stretch dough to corners of sheet. Cover with a dish towel; let rest at room temperature for 30 min. Mix tomatoes, cream, garlic, oregano, and salt in a bowl. Uncover dough; gently stretch to corners of baking sheet if it has shrunk. Spread tomato mixture evenly over dough. Top with cheese, pepperoni, and onion. Bake until cheese is melted and crust is golden, 18-20 min. Top with crushed red pepper and oregano. 
