Grapefruit Custard Pie with Saltine Crust

Crust:
30 unsalted tops saltine crackers (enough for 1 c)
3 tbsp granulated sugar
5 tbsp unsalted butter, melted

Grind the crackers in a food processor to fine crumbs. Add the sugar and melted butter and pulse just to incorporate. Pour the crumbs into an ungreased 9" pie pan. Spread evenly over the bottom then create a circle about 1" in to separate the crumbs for the sides from the crumbs for the bottom. Start pressing the outer ring of crumbs evenly up the sides and into the corner of the pan. Press the remaining crumbs evenly over the bottom to meet the sides; use a flat-bottomed cup to smooth out bumps. Put the pie pan into the freezer and freeze until solid, about 10 min. Peheat the oven to 350F. Bake the crust on the center oven rack until fragrant and darkened slightly, 14-16 min. Fix the crust if any slumping has occured while the crust is hot. Cool completely on a wire rack and refrigerate the crust for 10 min prior to filling to set the crumbs in place.

Filling:
1 1/4 c granulated sugar
2 tbps ap flour
1/2 tsp kosher salt
2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
3 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1 c freshly squeezed grapefruit juice (~ 2 grapefruits worth)
3 tbsp campari liqueur
1 c heavy cream
dash orange-flavored cocktail bitters (optional)

Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 325F. Place the prebaked pie crust on a rimmed baking sheet. In a large bowl, whisk together the sugar, flour, salt, and melted butter. Whisk in the eggs and egg yolk one at a time, blending well after each addition. Whisk in the grapefruit juice, campari, heavy cream, and bitters, if using. Strain the filling through a fine-mesh sieve directly into the pie shell. Bake on the middle rack of the oven for 50-55 min, rotating the pan 180 when the edges start to set, 30-35 min. The pie is finished when the edges are set and puffed slightly and the center is no longer liquid but still quite wobbly. Allow pie to cool completely before serving, 2-3hrs.
