Healthy Green Bean Casserole (vegan)
   -Hummusapien

Heaping ½ c raw cashews, soaked for 30 min or overnight
½ c unsweetened almond milk (or water)
3 medium onions, divided
3 tbsp whole grain bread crumbs (sub gluten-free bread crumbs for gluten-free)
3 tbsp flour (I used gluten-free oat flour)
2¼ tsp salt (divided)
2 lbs frozen cut green beans
1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, diced
3 cloves garlic, minced
2-8oz packages sliced mushrooms, chopped
Pinch ground nutmeg (optional)
1 tbsp soy sauce (sub tamari for gluten-free)
¼ c dry white wine (I used chardonnay)
Freshly ground black pepper, to tast

Place cashews in a bowl and cover with hot water. Set aside to soak for 30 min or overnight. (If you have a nutribullet or high speed blender, 10 min of soaking is fine.) Preheat oven to 475F. Thinly slice two of the onions, setting aside the other onion for later. Combined sliced onions with bread crumbs, flour and ¾ tsp salt in a large bowl, tossing to combine. Be sure to separate each individual onion piece. Spread onions in an even layer on a baking sheet sprayed with cooking spray or lined with a Silipat. Spray once again with cooking spray. Bake for 20-25 min, tossing halfway through. Watch carefully to make sure they don't burn towards the end of cooking. Once onions are done, remove from oven and lower oven heat to 350F for casserole. Bring a large pot with two inches of water to a boil. Once boiling add green beans. Bring back to a boil (this may take a while) and cook over medium heat for about 5 min, or until tender. Drain and run cold water over green beans to stop cooking. Set aside. In a large skillet, heat olive oil over medium heat. Chop remaining onion. Once hot, ad to pan and cook for ~5 min before adding garlic and mushrooms. Cook for another10 min, stirring often. Add nutmeg, soy sauce, white wine, 1½ tsp salt, and pepper. (It will taste salty, that's ok!). Simmer for ~5 min. Blend soaked cashews with almond milk in a blender or food processor (I used my nutribullet) until completely smooth and creamy. Set aside. Stir in cashew cream and ¼ of the baked onions. Stir in cooked green beans. Spread mixture into a large casserole dish. Top with remaining baked onions. Bake at 350F for 20 min (if onions are on the crispier side, you can cover with foil for first half of cooking.) Serve hot!

