Green Curry Paste
  --Julia Mueller

1/2 c fresh basil, chopped
1/2 c fresh cilantro, chopped
1 stalk lemongrass, thinly sliced (or 3 tbsp Lemongrass paste)
2 jalapeños, seeded and chopped
1 medium shallot, chopped
5 cloves garlic, minced
1 tbsp fresh ginger, grated
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp ground coriander
1 tbsp coconut aminos *, or low-sodium soy sauce
zest of 1 lime
2 tsp fresh lime juice
4-6 tbsp full-fat canned coconut milk

Add all ingredients except for the coconut milk to a blender or food processor. Pulse until everything is finely chopped. Add the coconut milk a couple of tablespoons at a time and continue blending until a paste is achieved.


Notes: I didn't add the coconut milk


Variant
 --Nisha, Rainbow Plant Life

1 tbsp coriander seeds
1/2 tbsp cumin seeds
1 tsp white peppercorns or 1/2 tsp ground white pepper
4-12 bird's eye green chile peppers (AKA Thai chile peppers), stems removed
1-2 jalapeño peppers, membranes removed and stems removed
4 lemongrass stalks (~15g minced lemongrass
1 1/2" (4 cm) piece galangal (~15g sliced)
2 medium shallots, peeled
8 garlic cloves, peeled
2 tbsp chopped cilantro roots or stems
4 fresh makrut lime leaves, folded in half and middle rib removed
20 Thai basil leaves (optional)
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt (or 3/4 - 1 tsp sea salt), more to taste
1 tsp white miso paste (AKA shiro miso)
1 dried shiitake mushroom, grated with a microplane (for extra umami; omit if needed)
2 tbsp neutral-flavored oil of choice

Heat a small or medium frying pan over medium heat. Once warm, add the coriander seeds, cumin seeds, and white peppercorns (if using) and toast until darker in color and fragrant. Transfer to a bowl to stop cooking and cool. While the spices cool, prep your chiles, aromatics, and herbs. For the smoothest texture: grind the cooled whole spices using an electric spice grinder or mortar and pestle. For lemongrass, slice off the top green stalks, the tough bottom nub, and peel away several layers of papery peel until you reach the tender inner white core (it should be soft and bendy). If you have a rolling pin or mallet, use it to smash down on the lemongrass to release more aroma. For galangal, use a sharp knife and cut off any hard knobs. Angle your knife as needed so you don’t cut through the root. No need to peel. High powered blender: if 48oz jar, double; if 64oz or larger, triple recipe. Grate the dried shiitake mushroom. You can leave the other herbs and aromatics whole. First, add the oil to the blender so it coats the blades. Now add the remaining ingredients: chile peppers, toasted (ground) spices, lemongrass, galangal, shallots, garlic, cilantro roots or stems, lime leaves, Thai basil, salt, miso, and grated shiitake mushroom.Start blending on low, using the blender’s tamper to push everything down (make sure the blender lid is on when using the tamper). Stop the machine and use a silicone spatula to scrape everything down a few times. Gradually increase the speed to high, using the tamper to go up and down constantly. It should be smooth and look almost like pureed avocado by the end.
Can freeze for up tp 3 months.


