Green Chile Chicken Empanada With Corn Avocado Relish & Pickled Onion
  --Adrianne Calvo

Dough:
1 1/2 c ap flour
1 c masa harina
1 tsp baking powder
1 tsp kosher salt
1/2 c unsalted butter, melted and room temp
1/2 c + 3 tbsp water
1 large egg beaten with 1 tbsp water for egg wash

In a large bowl, sift together the flour, masa, baking powder, and salt. Stir in the butter then gradually add water, working it in with your hands to incorporate. Form the dough into a ball, wrap in plastic, and chill for 30 min.

Filling:
8 medium tomatillos, husked and rinsed
2 jalapenos, stemmed and seeded
1 medium yellow onion, quartered
8 garlic cloves
1/2 c cilantro, coarsely chopped (~1/4 bunch)
1 lime, juiced (~1 tbsp)
salt to taste
1 1/2 lbs boneless chicken thighs
1 tbsp olive oil
1 c queso fresco, crumbled
1/2 c monterey jack cheese, shredded

In a medium saucepan, add 2 qts water and bring to a boil. Add the tomatillos, jalapenos, onion, and garlic. Simmer for 15 min until the tomatillos are soft. Drain and cool slightly. Combine the tomatillos, garlic, onions, jalapenos, cilantro, and lime juice in a blender. Blend on medium for ~15-40 s or until it has a thin salsa consistency. Season to taste with salt and set aside. Preheat oven to 400F. On a sheet pan, season chicken with olive oil and salt. Roast the thighs for ~45 min or until they are thoroughly cooked. Remove the chicken from the oven and let cool. Once cool, finely shred the chicken. In a large mixing bowl, combine the chicken, queso, and cheese. Pour in 1 1/2 c of the puree and fold the ingredients together. Reserve the extra chile sauce for another use.

Relish:
3 ears fresh corn, husks and silks removed
2 avocados, small dice
1 red onion, minced
1 red bell pepper, minced
3 garlic cloves, grated
1 tbsp ground cumin
1 tsp crushed red pepper flakes
1/4 c cilantro, chopped
1/3 c red wine vinegar
2 tbsp evoo
1/4 c fresh lime juice
kosher salt and black pepper to taste

Place the corn in a large pot with enough water to cover and bring to a boil. Cook until the kernels are tender but crisp, ~5-7 min. Drain and cool in cold water. Use a knife to scrape the kernels from the cobs. Place the kernels in a medium bowl. Stir in the avocados, onions, bell peppers, and garlic. Add the cumin, red pepper flakes, and cilantro. Mix in the vinegar, oil, and juice. Season with salt and pepper.

Pickled Onions:
1 c red onion, thinly sliced into rings
1 c red wine vinegar
1/4 c sugar
1 tsp dried oregano

Bring all ingredients to a quick boil, and then turn off the heat.

Assembly:
Remove the dough from the refrigerator. Lighly flour the work surface and rolling pin. Divide the dough in half and roll out to a 1/8" thickness. Using a 4" cookie or biscuit cutter, cut out circles of dough and repeate with the other half. To maximize the dough, roll the scraps back together and repeate the process. Spoon 2 tbsp of filling into center of each dough circle, leaving a 1/2" border. Brush the edges with the egg wash and fold the dough in half to enclose the filling and form a semicircle. Tightly seal the edges by crimping with the tines of a fork. Chill at least 30 min before baking. Preheat oven to 375F. Place the empanadas on a buttered baking sheet and brush the tops with the egg wash. Using a fork, prick a few holes into the tops of the empanadas for steam to escape. Bake for 35 min, until golden brown. Top with the relish and pickled onions and serve.
