Green Papaya Salad

For the chicken:
4 cilantro stems
3 garlic cloves
1/2 tsp kosher salt
14oz can of coconut milk
2 tbsp fish sauce
3 tbsp granulated sugar
kosher salt & white pepper to taste
1 1/2 lbs boneless, skinless chicken thighs
2 tbsp canola oil

In a blender, combine all the ingredients, except for the chicken, and puree until smooth. Season the mixture with salt and pepper. Place the chicken and the marinade in a bowl, then cover and chill for at least 2 hrs, preferrably overnight.

For the scallion oil:
6 thinly sliced scallions
1 1/4 c canola oil
1 tsp kosher salt

Prepare an ice bath. Heat the oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the scallions and salt and remove the pan from the heat. once the oil stops bubbling, pour it into a bowl set over the ice bath and cool. Once it is cool, strain the oil and set aside.

For the dressing:
2 tbsp granulated sugar
1/4 c fish sauce
1/2 c fresh lime juice
1 minced garlic cloev
1/3 c scallion oil
4 thinly sliced thai chili peppers

In a mixing bowl, whisk together the sugar, fish sauce, and lime juice until the sugar dissolves. Add the remaining ingredients to the bowl and whisk them well.

For the salad:
1 c canola oil for frying
1 c julienned taro
4 c julienned medium green papaya (about 1/2)
1 c julienned carrot (about 2 small)
1/2 c torn mint leaves
1/2 c cilantro leaves
1/2 c vietnamese mint (optional)
1/2 crispy shallots
1/3 c chopped, roasted, unsalted peanuts

Remove the chicken from the marinade, allowing the excess marinade to drip off. Set the chicken on a plate and let it rest for 30 min at room temp. While the chicken is resting, in a small saucepan, combine 1 c canola oil with the taro. Place the saucepan over medium-high heat. Fry the taro until it's crisp and deep, golden brown, for about 2-4 min. Using a slotted spoon, remove the taro and place it on a paper towel-lined plate; season with salt and set aside. Place a grill pan over medium-high heat and add the oil. Working in 2 batches, grill the chicken until it is lightly charred on the bottom, for about 4-5 min. Flip and cook until the other side is charred and the chicken is cooked through, for another 4-5 min. Remove the chickedn from the heat and let it rest for 10 min before slicing thinly. In a large mixing bowl, combine the papaya, carrots, herbs, peanuts, and grilled chicken slices. Add 1/2 c of the dressing to the bowl, and toss to coat. Do not overdress the salad. Once it's evenly coatd, add 1/2 the taro and toss it. Garnish the salad with the remaining taro and crispy shallots.

