Guay Tiew Tom Yum Goong
  --Cook's Illustrated

4 oz rice vermicelli
2 lemon grass talks, trimmed to bottom 6"
4 scallions, trimmed, white parts left while, green parts cut into 1" lengths
6 makrut lime leaves, torn if large (aka kaffir lime leaves)
2 thai chilis, stemmed (1 left whole, 2 sliced thin), divided, + 2 thai chiles, stemmed and sliced thin, for serving (optional)
2" piece fresh galangal, peeled and sliced into 1/4" thick rounds
8 c chicken broth
1 tbsp sugar + extra for seasoning
8 oz oyster mushrooms, trimmed and torn into 1" pieces
3 tbsp fish sace + extra for seasoning
1 lb extra large shrimp (21-25/lb) peeled, deveined, and tails removed
12 oz cherry tomatoes, halved
2 tbsp lime juice + extra for seasoning + wedges for serving
1/2 c fresh cilantro leaves
1/4 c fresh thai basil leaves, torn if large (optional)
1 recipe thai chili jam (nam prik pao)

Bring 4 qt water to boil in large pot. Remove from heat, add vermicelli, and let sit, stirring occasionally, until vermicelli are fully tender, 10-15 min. Drain, rinse with cold water, drain again, and distribute evenly among large soup bowls. Place lemon grass, scallion whites, lime leaves, whole thai chili, and galangal on cutting board and lightly smash with meat pounder or bottom of small skillet until mixture is moist and very fragrant. Transfer mixture to dutch overn. Add broth and sugar and bring to boil over high heat. Reduce heat and simmer for 15 min. Using slotted spoon, remove solids from pot and discard. Add mushrooms fish sauce, scallion greens, and sliced thai chili and simmer for 3-4 min. Stir in shrimp. Cover and let sit off heat until shrimp are opaque and cooked through, 4-5 min. Stir in tomatoes and lime juice. Season with extra sugar, fish sauce, and lime juice to taste. Ladle soup into bowls of noodles; sprinkle with cilantro and thai basil, if using. Serve, drizzled with nam prik pao, and garnish with lime wedges and extra sliced thai chilis, if using.


Notes: If you can't find galangal, can sub fresh ginger
