Handpies
  --GIR

Dough:
2 1/2 c ap flour
1 tbsp sugar
1 tsp kosher salt
2 sticks (8oz) unsalted butter
6-9 tbsp ice water

Placed butter in freezer while prepping other ingredients. In the bowl of stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment, combine flour, sugar, and salt. Mix on low for 15 s. Add the cold butter all at once and beat on low until the mixture resembles coarse sand with pea sized pieces of butter. With mixer on low, add 6 tbsp water. Beat on low for 2-3 min or until the dough clumps around the paddle. If the dough seems too dry, add more water 1 tsp at a time. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface. Quickly kneads the dough into a rough ball. Divide the dough in half and shape each half into a rough ball. Wrap each portion tightly in plastic wrap and flatten into a small disc. Refrigerate for at least 1 hr, up to overnight. Remove dough from refrigerator. Lightly dust surface with flour. Roll dough out to 1/8" thick. Using a 4" cookie cutter, cut out as many pieces as possible. Place the pieces on a parchment lined baking sheet and refrigerate for 20 min. 

Apple:
2 large honey crisp apples, peeled and diced small
3 tbsp salted butter
2 tbsp bourbon whiskey
1 tsp vanilla bean paste
1/2 tsp cinnamon
1/2 c brown sugar

Heat butter in saute pan until just barely golden brown. Add the apples and cook for 2 min. Add the bourbon and cook for another min. Add the vanilla, cinnamon, and sugar, and toss to combine. Cook for 5-7 min until liquid is reduced to syrup consistency. Allow to cool to room temp.

Blackberry:
18 oz fresh blackberries
1/3 c sugar
1 tsp vanilla

Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and prehest oven to 400F. Place blackberries on baking sheet and roast for 30 min. Transfer berries to a pot with sugar and vanilla. Simmer over medium heat for 10 min, until thick. Cool to room temp.


Assembly:
1/4 c raw or turbinado sugar for sprinkling
1 egg

Preheat oven to 375F. Lightly beat egg in a small bowl. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place half the cutouts on the tray. Place 1 1/2 tbsp of either filling in each center. Brush the edges around the filling with the egg. Place another cutout on topand line up with the edges. Using a fork, crimp the edges together, sealing in the filling. Brush the top with egg and sprinkle with sugar. Repeat with remaining hand pies. Bake for 25 min, until dark golden brown. Cool on baking rack.


Notes: Dough and filling can be made 1 day ahead. Any leftover filling makes great ice cream toppings or pancake toppings.
