Het Dong Kai Dao
(Thai pickled mushrooms with fried eggand rice)

Pickled Mushrooms:
2 chiles de arbol
2 garlic cloves, smashed
2 cilantro roots, chopped
2 small shallots, halved and thinly sliced
1 tsp coriander sees
2 tbsp oil
16 oz button mushrooms, cleaned and quartered
1" galangal, thinly sliced
1/2 c white vinegar
1/4 c water
1/3 c fish sauce + more to taste
1 tbsp palm sugar
8 kaffir lime leaves, 6 thinly sliced and 2 whole
2 bird's-eye chiles, thinly sliced
1 lemongrass stalk, ends trimmed and middle thinly sliced into small rings
1 tsp freshly ground white pepper

In a small cast-iron skillet over medium heat (or over open flame), toast the chiles de arbol until the skins start to blister and are aromatic, 3 min. Let cool slightly. In a large motar and pestle, crush the toasted chiles de arbol with the garlic, cilantro roots, shallots, and coriander seeds until a chunky paste forms. In a large saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. When the oil is hot, add the chile-garlic mixture and cook until the garlic is light golden brown, 2-4 min. Add the mushrooms and cook until softened but not brown, 5-7 min. Add the galangal, vinegar, water, fish sauce, and palm sugar, and cook 1 min more. Add the kaffir leaves, bird's-eye chiles, lemongrass, and whie pepper. Adjust the seasoning to taste with fish sauce. Increase the heat and cook the mushrooms at a simmer for 2-3 min, then remove from the heat and let cool to room temp. Cover and chill in the fridge at least 1 hrs or up to 2 weeks. Makes 4 c of pickled mushrooms.

Assembly

Canola oil for frying
4 large eggs
6 c cooked jasmine rice
1/2 c cilantro leaves
1/4 c thinly sliced scallion
1/2 tsp coriander seeds, slightly crushed in a mortar and pestle

Pour enough oil into a large saute pan to reach a 1/4" depth and place over medium high heat until it's very hot, just below smoking. Crack the eggs into 4 small bowls and drop them into the hot oil. Holding the pan's handle, carefully lift and tip the pan away from you and swirl the pan so the oil covers and cooks the eggs until they're blistered and deep golden brown with the centers remaining soft, 2 min. To serve, evenly divide the rice among 4 shallow bowls. Spoon some of the pickled musherooms, including the pickling liquid, over the rice. Top with a fried egg and garnish with cilantro, scallion, and crushed coriander.
