Holubtsi (Ukranian-style Stuffed Cabbage)

12-14 large savoy cabbage leaves (1 large cabbage)
2 tbsp canola oil
1 medium onion, finely diced and divided
1 large carrot, peeled and finely grated
1 tbsp tomato paste
1 tsp sugar
14.5 oz can chopped tomatoes
1 2/3 c water
2 bay leaves
1 1/4 tsp kosher salt + more to taste
8oz ground beef
8oz ground pork
1/3 c barberries (optional)
1/4 c white long grain rice, [arboiled for 5 min
1/4 c chopped dill
sour cream & sliced soudough bread for serving

Prepare a large ice bath and bring a large pot of salted water to boi. Working in batches, blanch the cabbage leaves until bright green and pliable, 1 1/2-2 min per leaf. Shock in the ice bath and transfer to a paper towel lined baking sheet to drain. In a large heavy-bottomed saucepan or dutch oven, heat the canola oil over medium high heat. Add half of the onion and all of the grated carrot, and cook until soft, 5-7 min. Add the tomato paste and sugar, and cook until lightly caramelized, 1-2 min. Add the chopped tomatoes, water, and bay leaves, and cook until reduced by half, 15-20 min. Remove from the heat and season with salt to taste. In a large bowl, combine the ground meats, barberries (if using), parboiled rice, and the remaining diced onion. Season with the salt and gently toss with your hands to mix, just until combined. Working with 1 cabbage leaf at a time with the stem end facing towards you, place 2 heaping tbsp of the filling into the center of the leaf. Fold the sides of the cabbage over the filling, then roll up. Arrange the rolls, seam side down, into the pot to form one even layer. Bring the pot to a simmer over medium high heat. Reduce the heat to medium low, cover with the lid slightly ajar and simmer until the filling is cooked through, 35-45 min. Top the stuffed cabbage with the copped dill and serve with sour cream and sourdough.


To make in a slow cooker:

Mix together 8oz of ground beef, 8oz ground pork with 1/4 c parboiled rice, 1/2 ofa diced onion, 1 1/4 tsp salt, and 1/3 c barberries. (can use raisins soaked in lemon juice). Mix with your hands until just combined. To roll the cabbage leaves, take a small handful of meat mix and place it in the middle of a blanched savoy cabbage leaf. Fold the sides of the cabbage in first, then tuck the bottom in and roll up and away from you. To get the sauce ready, in the slow cooker, mix 2 tbsp canola oil, the other 1/2 of the diced onion, 1 finely grated carrot, 1 tbsp of tomato paste, 1 tsp of sugar, 2 bay leaves, a 14 1/2 oz can of diced tomatoes, 1 c of water, and salt to taste. Stir well to incorporate and then add the rolled cabbage leaves to the vessel. There should be room for 10-12 stuffed leaves. Cover the slow cooker and set it. After 2 1/2 hrs the cabbage leaves will be ready to be scooped out and served with a dollop of sour cream and lots of dill.
