Hot and Sour Soup

Stock:
2 lbs pork bones
12 c cold water
5 (1/2oz) dried shiitake mushrooms
4 garlic cloves, smashed
2 scallions, roughly chopped
1 yellow onion, halved
1 2" piece ginger, thinly sliced

Preheat the oven to 425. Line a sheet tray with parchment papger and add the pork bones. Roast until golden brown, 1 hr. Transfer the bones to a large stockpot, along with the water, dried shiitake mushrooms, garlic, scallions, onion, and ginger. Bring to a boil over high heat, reduce to a simmer and cook until it's reduced by half, ~ 2 1/2 hrs. Strain the stock, discarding the bones, and return the stock to the pot. Can store the stock in the fridge for up to 3 days or freeze it for up to 3 months.

Soup:
1/2 c (1/2oz) dried lily buds
1/2 c ((1/2 oz) dried wood ear mushrooms
3 tbsp cornstarch
3 tbsp shaoxing wine
3 tbsp red wine vinegar
1 tsp white sugar
1 tsp freshly ground white pepper
crushed chile flakes, to taste
kosher salt, to taste
6 oz boneless pork loin, cut into 2" by 1/8" slices
1 c (7oz) 1/2" cubed soft tofu
1/2 c julienned bamboo shoots
1 large egg, lightly beaten
cilantro leaves for garnish
thinly sliced scallions for garnish

In a small bowl, add the dried lily buds and cover with 3/4 c boiling water. Let it sit until soft, 10 min, then drain and discard the soaking liquid. In a separate small bowl, add the dried wood ear mushrooms and cover with 3.4 c boiling water. Let sit until soft, 15 min, then drain and reserve the soaking liquid. Cut the mushrooms and the lily buds into 2" pieces and set aside. Whick the cornstarch into the mushroom soaking liquid until smooth. Return the pork stock to medium high heat and bring to a simmer. Add the shaoxing wine, vinegar, ground white pepper, red chile flakes, and salt. Add the cornstarch slurry and pork. Cook until the pork is tender, ~ 3min. Stir in the reserved mushrooms and lily buds, tofu, and bamboo shoots. Reduce the heat to a bare simmer, and slowly pour the egg into the broth in a thing stream. Let it sit for 15 s, then stir to incorporate.
