Hot Fried Chicken

Brine:
8chicken thighs
1 c sliced dill pickles
1 c dill pickle juice
1/2 c water
1 habanero pepper, stem removed
1/4 c kosher salt
2 tsp sugar

Place the chicken in a gallon size ziplog bag. In a blender, combine the pickles, pickle juice, water, habanero, salt, and sugar, and mix on medium speed until smooth. Pour the brine over the chicken and seal the bag. Chill for 4-8 hours. Remove the chicken from the brine and lay the thigs in a single layer, skin side up, on a wire rack set over a rimmed baking sheet. Chill uncovered for 1 hr.

Hot Chicken:
2 c ap flour
2 tsp sweet paprika
1 tsp cayenne pepper
1 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp finely ground black pepper
4 c canola oil for frying

In a large bowl combine the flour, paprika, cayenne, salt, and pepper. Dredge the chicken thights in the seasoned flour, then pat them between your hads to shake off excess. Return the chicken to the wire rack, reserving the seasoned flour, and chill another 30 min. Dredge the chicken thighs in the reserved flour once more and return them to the wire rack. Chill in the fridge for a final 30 min. Line a clean rimmed sheet tray with a clean wire rack and set aside. Attach a deep-fry thermometer to a large cast-iron skillet, and fill it with oil to a 1/2" depth. Place the skillet over medium high heat until a thermometer registers 365F. Working in 2 batches, lay the chicken thighs in the hot oil, skin side down and away from you, and cook until the bottoms are deep golden brown, 5-6 min. Carefully fip and continue to cook until each chicken thigh is deep brown, and a meat thermometer inserted into the deepest part of the thigh registers 160F, another 6 min. Transfer the chicken to the wire rack and repeat with the remaining thighs.

Spicy Oil:
3 tbsp cayenne pepper
3 tsp smoked paprika
3 tsp sweet paprika
2 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp garlic powder
4 tsp kosher salt
2 tsp sugar
4 c canola oil

In a large saucepan, combine the cayenne, smoked and sweet paprika, cumin, garlic powder, salt, and sugar. Place over medium heat and toast until fragrant, stirring often, 2 min. Slowly add the oil and heat for 10 min, then remove from the heat and keep warm. When making ahead, let the oil cool to room temp, then store in the fridge for up to 2 weeks.

Using a large slotted spoon, dunk the fried chicken into the hot oil, turning to coat both sides. To serve, lay the bread slices on a large platter and top with the fried chicken and pickles.
