Instant Pot Lamb Haleem
  --Sohla El-Waylly

3/4 c assorted dals (chana dal, moong dal, masoor dal, and/or urad dal)
1/4  white jasmine rice (or other long grain rice)
1/4 c pearl barley
1 1/2 lb bone in lamb stew meat
3 tsp kosher salt, divided, + more
6" piece fresh ginger
3 medium shallots, thinly sliced
1/3 c ghee or vegetable oil
4 garlic cloves, finely grated
2 tbsp + 1 1/2 tsp garam masala
1 tsp (or more) cayenne pepper
1 tsp ground tumeric
3 green thai chiles, stems removed (optional)
1/2 c lightly packed chopped cilantro + more for serving
1/2 white onion, finely chopped
2 limes, cut into wedges

Combine dals, rice, and barley in a medium bowl. Pour water over to cover and swish dals and grains around with your fingers. Drain and repeat process until water runs clear enough to see your hands through. Pour in water to cover and let dals and grains soak at room temp at least 2 hr, or cover and chill up to 12 hr. Place lamb on a plate, pat dry with paper towels, and season all over with 2 tsp salt; set aside. Peel ginger. Finely grate 1/2 ginger; set aside. Thinly slice remaining ginger; stack slices and cut crosswise into matchsticks; set aside.

If using an electric pressure cooker, combine shallots and ghee in pot and set to saute function or high. Cook, stirring often and adjusting heat as needed (if your cooker has that option) until shallots are just beginning to brown, ~8 min (or ~6 min if using oil). Reduce to normal function or medium, if possible, or if your cooker doesn't have a lower setting, turn off for a minute if mixture is getting too hot. Add reserved ginger matchsticks and cook, stirring often, until shallots are brown and crisp and ginger is frizzled, 4-10 min. Using a slotted spoon, transfer shallots and ginger to a plate, spreading out in a single layer. Season lightly with salt; let cool. Add garlic, garam masala, cayenne, turmeric, and reserved grated ginger, and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, ~30 s. Add lamb and stir to coat in spices. Cook, stirring often with wooden spoon and repeatedly adding splashes of water as spices begin to stick to bottom of pot and scraping up fond, until flavors come together, ~15 min (Bhuna cooking technique). Drain dal mixture and add to pot along with 1 tsp salt nd 5 c water. Secure lid and bring to full pressure according to manufacturer's directions. Cook 1 1/2 hr. Let site 20 min, then manually release pressure and open up. Taste haleem and add more salt and cayenne if needed. Add chiles if using. Simmer on normal function or medium, stirring often, 5 min. Stir in 1/2 c cilantro. 

If using dutch oven or stovetop pressure cooker, cook shallots and ghee over high heat, stirring often, until shallot are just beginning to brown, ~8 min (or ~6 min if using oil). Add reserved ginger matchsticks and cook, stirring often, until shallots are brown and crisp and ginger is frizzled, 5-8 min. Using slotted spoon, transfer shallots and ginger to a plate, spreading out in a single layer. Season lightly with salt; let cool. Reduce heat to medium, add garlic, garam masala, cayenne, turmeric, and reserved grated ginger, and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, ~30 s. Add lamb and stir to coat in spies. Cook, stirring often with wooden spoon and repeatedly adding splashes of water as spices begin to stick to bottom of pot and scraping up fond, until flavors come together, ~15 min. Drain dal mixture and add to pot along with 1 tsp salt and 6 1/2 c water (if using dutch oven) or 5 c water (for pressure cooker). Increase heat to high and bring to boil, then reduce heat to low, cover pot, and cook, stirring and scraping the bottom every 15-20 min, until meat is falling off the bone and dals and grains have nearly melted into the stew, 4 1/2-5 hr. If using a stove top pressure cooker, increase heat to high, bring to a boil. Secure lid and bring to full pressure according to manufacture's directions. Cook 1 1/2 hr. Let site 20 min, then manually release pressure and open up. Taste and add more salt and cayenne as needed. Add chiles if using. Simmer on medium heat, stirring often, 5 min. Stir in 1/2 c cilantro. 

Serve with white onion, lime wedges, reserved crispy shallots and ginger, and more chopped cilantro.



Notes: can be made 1 day ahead, let cool, cover and chill.

