Jammy Pie Bars
  --Erin Jeanne McDowell

2 c (160 g) old-fashioned oats
2 c (240 g) ap flour
3/4 c (160 grams) light or dark brown sugar
1/2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp fine sea salt
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
12 tbsp (170 g) unsalted butter, melted
24 oz (680 g) jam or preserves (2x12 oz jars)
2 single crust pie dough recipes (or one double crust pie dough recipe), prepared and chilled
egg wash, as needed for finishing
turbinado sugar, as needed for finishing
whipped cream, for serving (optional)

Lightly grease a 9x13" (23x33 cm) pan with nonstick spray. Line the pan with parchment paper, leaving excess on the two shorter sides to make it easier to unmold the bars later. In a medium bowl, mix the oats, flour, brown sugar, baking powder, salt, and cinnamon to combine. Drizzle the melted butter evenly over the mixture, then mix well until the mixture forms moist clumps. Press the streusel mixture into the base of the prepared pan in an even layer. Pour the jam or preserves on top of the crust and spread into an even layer. Transfer to the refrigerator while you prepare the pie crust strips. On a lightly floured surface, roll out the pie dough to 1/4" (6 mm) thick. Cut the dough into 1" (2.5 cm) wide strips. Use these strips to weave a tightly woven lattice on the surface of the bars. Remove the pan from the fridge. Lay half of the strips horizontally across the pan, laying each strip right next to the one next to it. Gently lift up every other strip, and lay another strip vertically across the pan. Repeat this process, pulling back every other strip and adding a vertical strip, until the entire pan is latticed. Use a paring knife to trim the excess dough around the outside edges so it’s flush with the pan. Transfer to the refrigerator to chill for at least 30 min, and preferably 1 hr. Towards the end of rise time, preheat the oven to 400F (205 C) with the oven rack in the center. Egg wash the surface of the crust and sprinkle with turbinado sugar. Transfer the bars to the oven and bake until the crust is deeply golden brown and the jam bubbles up through the lattice, 40-50 min. Cool completely inside the pan, then use the excess parchment paper to help unmold the bars. Slice the bars into 16 even pieces. Serve with whipped cream, if desired.
