Jerk Chicken

Marinade

1 tbsp allspice berries
1 tbsp whole black peppercorns
4-6 whole scotch bonnet peppers, stems removed
6 scallions, white and pale green parts, rough chopped
1 large shallot, peeled and halved
1" ginger, peeled and rough chopped
6 large garlic cloves, smashed
2 tbsp dark brown sugar
2 tbsp fresh thyme leaves
2 tbsp lime zest
2 tbsp fresh lime juice
2 tbsp canola oil
1/2 tsp fresh grated nutmeg
2 tsp kosher salt
4 whole chicken legs, patted dry

In a spice grinder or with mortar & pestle, grind the allspice and black peppercorns until coarsley ground. Transfer the spices along with the scotch bonnet peppers, scallions, shallot, ginger, garlic, brown sugar, thyme leaves, lime zest and juice, canola oil, nutmeg, and salt to a blender or food processor. Blend/process until smooth. Set a wire rack inside a rimmed baking sheet and put on kitchen gloves. Place chicken into a large bowl and slather the marinade all over the chicken using your hands, then transfer the chicken to the wire rack. Refrigerate the chicken, uncovered, for at least 4 hrs or up to 36 hrs.


Grilling & serving

1/2 c allspice berries, soaked in 1 c water
2 large handfuls bay leaves (18-24) soaked in 2 c water
Rice and beans
2 limes, cut into wedges

When ready to cook, remove chicken from the refrigerator, wiping off any excess marinade. Transfer to a plate and let site at room temp for 1hr before cooking. Once grill is ready, place a foil pan filled walfway with water next to charcoal. Add half of the soaked allspice berries and and half of the bay leaves to the charcoal and allow to smolder. Replace the top grate, close the lid and let the grill heat to 250-300F. Arrange the chicken, skin side up, on the grate, with the legs pointing toward the heat source, over the foil pan. Close the lid and open the bottom and lid vents halfway. Position the lid so that the top grill vent is on the opposite side of the fire. Cooke the chickn, undisturbed, adding more charcoal as needed to maintain the temp, for 50-60 min or until an instant read thermometer reads 150-155 when inserted into the thickest part of the thigh. Uncover the grill and drop the remaining allspice berries and bay leaves over the charcoal using tongs. Once the allspice berries and bay leaves begin to smoke, transfer the chicken to the hot side of the grill and continue to cook, flipping often, until the skin is lightly charred and crisp and the thigh temp reads 165F. Transfer to a work surface and let rest for 5 min before serving. Serve with lime wedges, rice and beans.
