Kalua Pork Belly

Dark Chicken Stock
3 lbs chicken wings
2 tsp olive oil
1/2 yellow onion, quartered
1 c chopped carrot (medium carrot)
1 c chopped celery (2 stalks)
4 quarts low-sodium chicken stock

Preheat the oven to 425F and line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Place the chicken wings onto the baking sheet and roast until the skin is blistered and dark brown, 1-1.5 hrs. While the chicken is roasting, brown the vegetables; In a large pot over medium heat, add the olive oil, onion, carrot, and celery. Cook until the vegetables begin to soften and brown, 15-20 min. Add the roasted chicken wings and chicken stock and bring to a boil. Reduce to a simmer and cook until you have 10 c, about 1 hr. Prepare a large ice bath. Strain your stock, discarding the meat & vegetables, and chill in a large bowl set over the ice bath.

Marinade
1 1/4 c sugar
1/4 c mirin
1 1/4 c soy sauce
4 smashed garlic cloves
1 tbsp ground cinnamon
1 tbsp fennel seeds
12 pieces whole star anise pods
1/4 c sliced ginger
1 tbsp liquid smoke
10 c dark chicken stock
8 lbs skin-on pork belly

In a large pot over medium heat, combine all the marinade ingredients except for the dark chicken stock and pork belly. Bring to a simmer and cook for 3-5 min. Remove from heat and stir the liquid into the chilled dark chicken stock. Transfer the pork belly to a large, deep baking dish, then add the marinade. Cover and refrigerate for 12-24hrs. Remove the pork belly from the refrigerator 1 hr before cooking and preheat the oven to 350F. Cover the baking dish with foil and braise until the pork belly is tender, 4 1/2-5hrs. Transfer the pork belly to a parchment-lined baking sheet and set aside. Strain the cooking liquid through a fine mesh strainer into a medium saucepan and skim the excess fat. Place the saucepan over medium-high heat and cook, reducing the liquid until you have 3 c glaze, 25-30min. Using a pastry brush, lacquer the pork belly with glaze and return it to the oben, 25-30 min. Transfer it to a cutting board and slice it into 2" strips and then slice 1/2" pieces. 

The pork belly and glaze can be made up to 1 day in advance. Cover and keep seaparte in the refrigerator. Let the pork come to room temp, then glaze and roast at 350F until the pork is heated through, 23-30 min.

Garnish with sesame seeds and scallions

