Key Lime Bars

Crust:
5 oz animal crackers
3 tbsp packed brown sugar (light or dark)
pinch table salt
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 325F. Cut ~12" length extra-wide heavy-duty foil; fold cut edges back to form 7 1/2" width. With folded sides facing down, fit foil securely into bottom and up sides of 8" square baking pan, allowing excess to overhang pan sides. Spray foil with nonstick cooking spray. In workbowl of food processor, pulse animal crackers until broken down, ~ten 1 s pulses; process crumbs until evenly fine, ~10 s (you should have ~1 1/4 c crumbs). Add brown sugar and salt; process to combine, 10-12 1 s pulses (if large sugar lumps remain, break them apart with fingers). Drizzle butter over crumbs and pulse until crumbs are evenly moistened with butter, ~ten 1 s pulses. Press crumbs evenly and firmly into bottom of prepared pan. Bake until deep golden brown, 18-20 min. Cool on wire rack while making filling. Do not turn off oven.

Filling:
2 oz cream cheese, room temperature
1 tbsp grated lime zest, minced
pinch table salt
14 oz can sweetened condensed milk
1 egg yolk
1/2 c fresh lime juice, either Key lime or regular

In medium bowl, stir cream cheese, zest, and salt with rubber spatula until softened, creamy, and thoroughly combined. Add sweetened condensed milk and whisk vigorously until incorporated and no lumps of cream cheese remain; whisk in egg yolk. Add lime juice and whisk gently until incorporated (mixture will thicken slightly). Pour filling into crust; spread to corners and smooth surface with rubber spatula. Bake until set and edges begin to pull away slightly from sides, 15-20 min. Cool on wire rack to room temperature, 1-1 1/2 hr. Cover with foil and refrigerate until thoroughly chilled, at least 2 hr.

Garnish:
3/4 c sweetened shredded coconut, toasted until golden and crisp

Loosen edges with paring knife and lift bars from baking pan using foil extensions; cut bars into 16 squares. Sprinkle with toasted coconut, if using, and serve. (Leftovers can be refrigerated up to 2 days; crust will soften slightly. Let bars stand at room temperature ~15 min before serving.)


Notes: can sub persian for key limes. The recipe can be doubled and baked in a 13x9" baking pan; you will need a double layer of extra-wide foil for the pan (each sheet ~20" in length) and should increase the baking times by a minute or two.
