Korean Fried Chicken

Vegetable or canola oil (for frying; about 2 quarts)
2 tsp sesame seeds
1 tbsp toasted sesame oil
1 tbsp finely chopped peeled fresh ginger
2 scallions, white and green parts separated, thinly sliced
1/2 c gochujang (Korean hot pepper paste)
1 tbsp light brown sugar
1/2 c cornstarch
1/2 c unbleached ap flour
2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp baking powder
Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c vodka
2 lb boneless, skinless chicken thighs, quartered

Set a wire rack inside a rimmed baking sheet and place near stove. Set deep-fry thermometer in a heavy wide pot, then pour in oil to a depth of 1 1/2". Heat over high until thermometer registers 350ºF. Meanwhile, toast sesame seeds in a small skillet over medium-low heat, stirring frequently, until lightly golden, 3–5 min. Transfer to a plate and let cool; set aside. Heat sesame oil in same skillet over medium. Add ginger and scallion whites. Cook, stirring frequently, until scallions are tender, about 1 min. Whisk in gochujang and brown sugar, bring just to a simmer, then remove from heat. Add 1/4 c water; whisk to combine. Transfer sauce to a large bowl and cover to keep warm; set aside. Whisk cornstarch, flour, salt, baking powder, and a generous pinch of pepper in another large bowl. Add vodka and 1/2 c cup cold water, then whisk until a smooth, loose batter forms. Add chicken and toss to coat. Using tongs, remove chicken from batter, letting excess drip back into bowl. Transfer to hot oil and cook, working in batches if needed, stirring occasionally with a slotted spoon to keep pieces from sticking together, and adjusting heat as needed to maintain 350ºF, until chicken is golden and crispy, 6–8 min per batch. Set a wire rack inside a rimmed baking sheet and place near stove. Set deep-fry thermometer in a heavy wide pot, then pour in oil to a depth of 1 1/2". Heat over high until thermometer registers 350ºF. Meanwhile, toast sesame seeds in a small skillet over medium-low heat, stirring frequently, until lightly golden, 3–5 min. Transfer to a plate and let cool; set aside. Heat sesame oil in same skillet over medium. Add ginger and scallion whites. Cook, stirring frequently, until scallions are tender, about 1 min. Whisk in gochujang and brown sugar, bring just to a simmer, then remove from heat. Add 1/4 c water; whisk to combine. Transfer sauce to a large bowl and cover to keep warm; set aside. Whisk cornstarch, flour, salt, baking powder, and a generous pinch of pepper in another large bowl. Add vodka and 1/2 c cup cold water, then whisk until a smooth, loose batter forms. Add chicken and toss to coat. Using tongs, remove chicken from batter, letting excess drip back into bowl. Transfer to hot oil and cook, working in batches if needed, stirring occasionally with a slotted spoon to keep pieces from sticking together, and adjusting heat as needed to maintain 350ºF, until chicken is golden and crispy, 6–8 min per batch. Set a wire rack inside a rimmed baking sheet and place near stove. Set deep-fry thermometer in a heavy wide pot, then pour in oil to a depth of 1 1/2". Heat over high until thermometer registers 350ºF. Meanwhile, toast sesame seeds in a small skillet over medium-low heat, stirring frequently, until lightly golden, 3–5 min. Transfer to a plate and let cool; set aside. Heat sesame oil in same skillet over medium. Add ginger and scallion whites. Cook, stirring frequently, until scallions are tender, about 1 min. Whisk in gochujang and brown sugar, bring just to a simmer, then remove from heat. Add 1/4 c water; whisk to combine. Transfer sauce to a large bowl and cover to keep warm; set aside. Whisk cornstarch, flour, salt, baking powder, and a generous pinch of pepper in another large bowl. Add vodka and 1/2 c cup cold water, then whisk until a smooth, loose batter forms. Add chicken and toss to coat. Using tongs, remove chicken from batter, letting excess drip back into bowl. Transfer to hot oil and cook, working in batches if needed, stirring occasionally with a slotted spoon to keep pieces from sticking together, and adjusting heat as needed to maintain 350ºF, until chicken is golden and crispy, 6–8 min per batch. Transfer fried chicken to prepared rack. Add chicken to reserved sauce and carefully toss to coat. Transfer to a serving platter. Top with reserved toasted sesame seeds and scallion greens.
