Khao Soi

Curry Paste
8-10 dried thai chile peppers
10 garlic cloves
5 kaffir lime leaves
4 medium shallots, halved
2" piece ginger, peeled and thinly sliced (1/3 c)
2" piece fresh tumeric, peeled and thinly sliced
1/4 c chopped coriander root or 2 tbsp finely chopped cilantro stems
2 tbsp sliced lemongrass (1/2 stalk)
1 tbsp shrimp paste
1 tbsp curry powder
1 1/2 tsp toasted coriander seeds, ground
1 1/2 tsp toasted cardamom pods, seeds removed and ground
1/2 tsp toasted cumin seeds, ground

Place the dried chiles in a heatproof bowl. Cover with boiling water and let soak until softened, 20 min. Drain the chiles, reserving the soaking liquid. In a food processor, pulse the chiles, garlic, kaffir lime leaves, shallots, ginger, tumeric, corander root, lemongrass, shrimp paste, curry powder, coriander seeds, cardamom seeds, cumin seeds, and 2-4 tbsp of the chile soaking liquid (as needed) to make a paste. Makes ~ 1 1/4c.

Khao Soi
3 c coconut milk, divided
curry paste
2 c water
1 1/2 lbs chicken legs, drumsticks and thighs separated (4legs)
1 1/2 c canola oil
4 oz thin egg noodles
12 oz thick egg noodles
2 tbsp palm sugar
kosher salt to taste
cilantro sprigs, pickled mustard greens, shallots, chile oil, and lime wedges for serving

In a large heavy pot, heat 1 c coconut milk over medium high heat. When the coconut milk begins to simmer, add the curry paste and cook, stirring constantly, until the liquid has thickened and reduced, 5 min. Add the water and remaining 2 c of coconut milk and bring to a boil. Add the chicken, reduce the heat to medium low, and simmer until the chicken is cooked through and tender, 40-45 min. Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium high heat. Working in 2 batches, fry the thin noodles until golden brown and crisp, about 1 min. Transfer to a paper towel lined plate and set aside. Cook the thick egg noodles, according to package directions, until al dente. Rinse under cold water and set aside. Stir the palm sugar into the soup. Taste and adjust the seasoning with salt. Divid the soup and noodles among 4 bowls and serve with cilantro, pickled mustard greens, shallots, chile oil, and lime wedges.
