Khua Mee (Deep Fried Rice Noodles)
  --James Syhabout
  
Omelet:

4 large eggs
1 tbsp fish sauce
3 tbsp canola oil

Crack the eggs into a small mixing bowl and add the fish sauce. Beat with a fork, as if making scrambled eggs. Add the oil to an 8" sauté pan over medium heat. When it's warm, pour in the egg mixture and tilt the pan to ensure the egg covers the bottom. Continue to cook over gentle heat for ~3 min - you'll notice the top of the omelet firming up. (If it starts to color, it means the pan is too hot; remove the pan from the heat.) Once the top is firm, flip and cook over low heat for another minute. Slide the omelet out of the pan and onto a plate to cool. Slice into ¼" slivers and reserve for garnishing.

Noodles:
½ lbs dried medium-wide rice noodles
½ c canola oil
½ c granulated sugar
¼ c sliced shallots
2 tbsp finely minced garlic
¼ c water
2 tbsp oyster sauce
2 tbsp Golden Mountain brand seasoning sauce
¼ c fish sauce
1 tbsp sweet soy sauce
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 tsp MSG (optional)
2 c mung bean sprouts
1½ c scallions, in 1" pieces

Start by soaking the noodles in cold water according to the package directions—when done, they should be opaque white and firm yet flexible. Transfer to a colander and drain well. Meanwhile, add the oil and sugar to a saucepan with a wide diameter and mix well; set over medium-high heat. As the oil gets hot, the sugar will caramelize. Cook until the caramel turns a deep amber. Once it has reached the desired color, turn off the heat, carefully add the shallots and garlic, and give it a stir with a spoon to sweat the aromatics—at this point, your kitchen should smell very good. Sweat the aromatics for 1 min, deglaze with the water and stir well. Add the seasonings (oyster sauce, seasoning sauce, fish sauce, sweet soy sauce, black pepper and MSG, if using) and mix well. Return the saucepan to medium heat and bring to a simmer. Add the drained noodles and cook, stirring constantly with a pair of tongs. Move the noodles as if tossing a salad—they'll wilt and slowly soak up the sauce. When the noodles have absorbed all the sauce and the pan is dry, with no residual sauce remaining, turn off the heat and fold in the bean sprouts and scallions, again like tossing a salad. Transfer to a large serving bowl or platter.

Garnish:
Sliced omelet
2 tbsp fried shallots
½ c chopped cilantro, stems included
1 c mung bean sprouts
Prik phong (ground toasted chile) or Sriracha

Scatter the top with the omelet slices, fried shallots and chopped cilantro, with a side of extra mung bean sprouts. Serve with prik phong or Sriracha.
