Bananas Foster King Cake

Dough:
1 c + 1 tbsp whole milk, divided
1 c (2 sticks) unsalted butter
2 tbsp yeast
1/2 c sugar
1 tsp salt
1/2 tsp vanilla
4 large eggs, divided
4 1/2 c flour + more for rolling
liquor filled chocolate bottle (optional)

In a small saucepan over low heat, warm 1 c of the milk and the butter until the butter is melted and the mixture is warm to the touch. Remove from the heat and transfer the mixture to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook. Sprinkle the yeast on top and let it sit until foaming, 8-10 min. With the mixer on medium speed, add the sugar, salt, vanilla, and 3 of the eggs, and mix until smooth. With the motor running, slowly add the flour and mix until just incorporated, 5 min. Increase the speed to medium high and beat until a dough ball forms, 4-6 min. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let sit in a warm place until the dough has doubled in size, 1 hr. 

Filling:
3/4 c dark brown sugar
4 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp cinnamon
2 tbsp dark rum
1/2 tsp salt
3 bananas, peeled and thinly sliced
8 oz cream cheese
3 tbsp ap flour

In a large skillet, heat the brown sugar and butter on medium high heat until the sugar dissolves, 2 min. Add the cinnamon, rum, and salt, and cook, stirring constantly, until the cinnamon is fragrant and the mixture has thickened, 2 min. Add the bananaas to the skillet and gently toss to coat in the sauce, cooking for 2 more min. Transfer to a medium bowl and mix in the cream cheese and flour until smooth, breaking up the bananas as you mix. Let cool completely.


Preheat oven to 250F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Divide the dough in half. On a lightly floured surface, roll out 1 piece into a 10x18" rectangle that's 1/4" thick. Spread half of the filling over the entire surface. Starting at one long end, roll the rectangle into a log. Repeat withth the remaining dough and filling. Braid the two together and stretch the braid to 18" long. Connect the ends to vor a 9" circle and transfer to the prepared baking sheet. In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining milk with the remaining egg. Brush the top of the dough completely with the egg wash. Bake until golden brown, 40 min. Let cool completely, then insert a chocolate liquor bottle into the cake by making a small hole in the bottom.

Glaze:
2 tbsp milk
2 tbsp light rum
2 c confectioners' sugar
1/4 tsp vanilla 
green, gold, and purple sanding sugars

In a small bowl, whisk the milk, rum, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla until smooth. Pour the glaze over the cake and decorate with sanding sugars. Let the glaze set slightly for 10 min before slicing
