Slow cooker Kung Pao Chicken
    @lifemadesweeter

Sauce:
1/3 c low sodium shoyu (can sub coconut aminos or tamari)
1/2 c water
4 tbsp honey
4 tbsp hoisin sauce
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tsp fresh grated ginger
1/4-1/2 tsp dried red pepper flakes

In medium bowl, whisk all ingredients together, set aside.

Chicken:
2 tbsp cornstarch (or arrowroot powder)
1/4 tsp black pepper
1/8 tsp salt
1 -1/4 lb boneless skinless, chicken breasts (~2-3 pieces) cut into bite sized chunks
3-4 tbsp olive or avocado oil
4-6 dried chili peppers (to taste)
2/3 c roasted cashews (or peanuts)
1 red bell pepper, chopped into bite size pieces
1 zucchini, chopped into halves
sesame seeds and chopped green onions for garnish

Slurry:
2 tbsp cornstarch
3 tbsp water
In a large bowl or ziplock bag, combine the chicken, cornstarch, salt, and black pepper. Shake/stir until well combined.

Instant Pot method:
Turn instant pot to saute, allow pan to heat up for a few minutes, then add oil. Cook chicken in batches, ~3-4 min on each side, until lightly browned; placing the browned chicken on a paper towl lined plate. Once all the chicken is browned, add back to the instant pot and pour sauce over the top. Close and seal instant pot and set the valve to sealing. Press manual or pressure cook (high) and set for 3 min. Once the 3 min is up and the instant pot beeps, do a quick release after 5 min. Open lid and transfer chicken to a large serving plate or bowl. Return inner pot, press saute and add additional oil as needed. Toss in the zucchini, bell pepper, and dried chili peppers. Cook for 2-3 min, until tender. Make the slurry and stir into instant pot. Allow sauce to bubble and thicken up. Return chicken back to pot along with the nuts and cook for another 1-2 min until everything is heated through. Pour chicken out into serving dish and sprinkle with sesame seeds and green onions and serve.

Notes: Can skip browning and cook on manual or pressure cook for 5 min if time is short. Double sauce but you probably won't need all of it to make a saucier version. Can serve with rice, quinoa, zoodels, rice noodles, cauliflower rice, etc. Can swap bell peppers and zucchini for whatever vegetables you prefer

