Kung Pao Chicken
  --Binging with Babish
  
Marinade:
12 oz boneless skinless chicken thighs or breasts, cut into 1/2” cubes
1 egg white
1 tbsp water
2 tsp sesame oil
2 tbsp shoyu, preferably dark
1 tbsp Shaoxing vinegar (or rice vinegar)
2 tsp cornstarch
1/4 tsp kosher salt
1/4 tsp white pepper

Combine the chicken, egg white, and water in a medium bowl. Using a gloved hand, combine the ingredients and massage the chicken. The result should be a thickened paste which encompasses the chicken. Add the sesame oil, soy sauce, vinegar, cornstarch, and white pepper. Once again, stir and massage the chicken until well combined and thickened. Allow the chicken to marinate at room temperature for 15-20 min.

Sauce:
1 1/2 tbsp granulated sugar
2 tsp cornstarch
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 tbsp shoyu
1 tbsp Shaoxing vinegar
2 tbsp black vinegar
1 tsp granulated chicken boullion powder
1 tbsp chili bean paste/sauce

In a small bowl, whisk together the sugar, cornstarch, and salt. In a medium bowl, combine the soy sauce, both vinegars, bouillon powder, water, chili bean paste (if using), and the cornstarch mixture. Reserve until ready to use.

Assembly:
peanut oil as needed
3/4 cup raw peanuts, shelled + skin removed
1/2 c Sichuan peppercorns
marinated Chicken
8-10 Tien Tsin peppers, chile japones, or chiles de árbol, stem + seeds removed + roughly chopped
6-8 green onions (whites only), cut into 1” segments
1" knob fresh ginger, peeled + minced (not grated)
4-5 garlic cloves, minced
Kung Pao Sauce

Prepare your stove top with one large wok. Next to the wok, place a fine mesh sieve into a deep saute pan, this will be used to strain the oil/ingredients thoroughout the cooking process. Add ~1/2 c of peanut oil to a cold wok, then heat over high heat while swirling the oil. Once the oil begins to smoke, remove the oil from the wok. This helps temper the wok before cooking. Reduce the heat to medium-high and add ~2 c of new peanut oil to the wok. Once the new oil has preheated, add the peanuts and cook for 30 s - 1 min, or until they are completely crisp but not too dark. Make sure to stir the peanuts with a metal spoon or ladle to prevent them from burning. Once the peanuts are crispy, strain and reserve the peanuts. Add the oil back to the wok. Add the sichuan peppercorns. Toast them in the oil for 30 s, making sure they don’t burn. Strain and discard the peppercorns. Transfer the now seasoned oil back to the wok. Turn the heat to high, then add the chicken and cook for 30 min or until the chicken has turned completely opaque, but not cooked through. Strain the chicken out and add about ½ cup of the fry oil back to the wok. Then, add the dried peppers/chiles and green onions to the wok and cook for 30 s. If the mixture gets too dry, add another more preanut oil as needed to the wok. Add the ginger and garlic, cook for 30 s. Add the kung pao sauce, chicken, and peanuts back to the wok and stir to combine. Optionally, add more soy sauce or bean paste to deepen the color and flavor. Cook the stir fry for an additional 30 s to combine the flavors. Serve immediately.



