Harissa and Lamb Bolognese with Fettuccine Pasta

1 lb fersh fettucine
5 tbsp olive oil, divided
2 medium carrots, peeled and cut into 2" pieces
1 medium yellow onion, peeled and quartered
1 celery stalk, cut into 2" pieces
1 lb ground lamb
kosher salt to taste
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 bay leaf
1 thyme stem
1/2 c red wine
14oz can tomatoes
1 c roasted red pepper
5 tbsp harissa
1 c whole milk
1/2 c freshly grated parmesan cheese + cheese curls for garnish
chopped mint for garnish
freshly grated lemon zest for garnish

In a large pot of boiling, salted water, cook the fresh fettucine until desired tenderness, 4-6 min. Strain the pasta, reserving 1 c of the cooking liquid. Shock the pasta with the cold water, strain and toss in a medium bowl with 1 tbsp olive oil. Cover with plastic wrap and store in the refrigerator until needed. In a food processor, combine the carrots, onion, and celery, and pulse the mixture until fully minced. In a large heavy bottomed pot, heat the remaining 4 tbsp olive oil over high heat. Add the ground lamb and season lightly with salt. Brown the meat until fully cooked, 5 min. Remove the lamb from the pot and reserve in a small bowl for later. Turn down the heat to medium and add the processed vegetable mixture to the same pan. Sweat the vegetables until the onions are translucent, 5 min. Add the garlic cloves, bay leaf, and thyme, and cook just until the garlic becomes fragrant, 1 min. Add the red wine and cook until the liquid has completely evaporated, 5 min. Add the tomatoes, roasted red peppers, and harissa; cover with a lid and simmer on low for 30 min. Raise the heat to a medium and add the milk and cheese. Let the mixture simmer until the cheese has fully melted and the sauce has thickened, 5 min. Add the cooked pasta and the reserved liquid, and simmer until the cooking liquid has absorbed back into the pasta and the sauce has thickened, 3-5 min. Season with salt. Garnish with mint, parmesan, and freshly grated lemon zest, then serve immediately.
