Lasagne Bolognese

Bechamel
4 tbsp unsalted butter
1/4 c ap flour
4 c whole milk, warmed
salt and white pepper to taste
pinch of freshly grated ground nutmeg

Melt the butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Right when the butter begins to foam, add the flour and cook, whisking until the roux turns light golden brown and starts to smell nutty, 4-6 min. Pour in the milk, 1 c at a time, and bring to boil. Reduce the heat and simmer, whisking often so that the bottom doesn't scortch, until the sauce thickens, 12-15 min. Turn off the heat and season with salt, white pepper, and nutmeg.

Ragu:
2 ribs celery, roughly chopped
2 medium carrots, roughly chopped
1 medium yellow onion, roughly chopped
3 tbsp evoo
4 oz pancetta, finely diced
salt and pepper to taste
2 lbs sweet italian sausage, casings removed
2 fresh bay leaves
2 sprigs thyme
1 c dry white wine
3 tbsp tomato paste
3 c chicken or beef stock (homemade preferred) low sodium, divided
1 c whole milk, divided

In a food processor, combine the celery, carrots, and onions and pulse until finely chopped. In a large, heavy-bottomed pot over medium heat, add 2 tbsp of the olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the pancetta and cook, stirring until some of the fat has rendered, about 5 min. Add the chopped vegetables and season with salt. Cook, stirring constantly until the vegetables are very soft and all the liquid has evaporated, 15-20 min. Transfer mixture to a bowl and set aside. Return the pot to the stove over medium high heat and add the remaining olive oil. Using a wooden spoon, break the sausage into small clumps. Season it with salt and brown, 15-20 min. Return the reserved vegetable mixture to the pot with the bay leaf and thyme and cook, stirring often, until most of the liquid has evaporated, 10 min. Deglaze the pan by adding the wine, making sure to scrape the brown bits on the bottom of the pan; reduce until all the liquid has evaporated and the contents have taken on a rich chestnut color, 15-20 min. Add the tomato paste and cook for 3-4 min. Deglaze the pan with 1/2 c of the stock and 1/2 c of the milk and reduce by half, ~ 15 min. Add the remaining stock and milk, skimming any fat that rises to the surface, and continue cooking until the flavors have melded together and the sauce has thickened, 30-40 min. Season with salt and allow to cool. Remove and discard the bay leaf and thyme. The sauce can be made up to 3 days ahead. Allowing the sauce to cool completely then slowly reheating until just warmed through will give the sauce a deep richer flavor.

Lasagne:
1 lb lasagne noodles, cooked until very al dente, and drained 
unsalted butter for greasing the dish
1 c finely grated parmesan

Preheat the oven to 350F. Reheast the sauces to warm if they were made ahead. Grease a 9x13" baking dish. Spread 1/2 c of the bechamel sauce in the bottom of prepared dish; top with 1/4 of the noodles. Top the noodles with 3/4 c bolognese sauce, followed by 1/4 c bechamel and 1/3 c of the cheese. Repeat the process 3 times. Reserve any extra meat sauce for another use. Transfer the baking dish to a sheet tray and bake until the cheese becomes brown and bubbly, 40-45 min. Remove from the oven and allow the lasagne to cool for 30 min before serving.


Variant from SmittenKitchen:
Bolognese:
1 medium onion, coarsely chopped (1" pieces are fine)
1 large or 2 slim carrots, coarsely chopped
2 ribs celery, coarsely chopped
3 cloves garlic, coarsely chopped
2-3 tbsp olive oil
kosher salt
freshly ground black pepper
2 lb ground chuck, brisket or round or combination
1 1/4 c tomato paste (from 2x6 oz cans)
2 c red wine, preferably hearty but really, anything you like to drink
water as needed
2 bay leaves
A few sprigs thyme, tied in a bundle

In a food processor, pulse onion, carrots, celery, and garlic until finely chopped. Heat a moderate-sized Dutch oven (4-5 qts) over medium-high heat. Once hot, coat the bottom of the pan with 2-3 tbsp of oil. Once it is hot, add the chopped vegetables and season them generously with salt and pepper. Cook the vegetables until they are evenly brown, stirring frequently, ~15 min. Add the ground beef and seasoning again with salt and pepper. Brown the beef well and again, don’t rush this step. Cook for another 15 min. Add the tomato paste and cook for 3-4 min. Add the red wine, using it to scrape up fond. Cook the wine until it has reduced by half, ~5 more min. Add water to the pan until the water is ~1" above the meat. Toss in the bay leaves and the bundle of thyme and stir to combine everything, bringing it to a low simmer. Keep a pitcher of water near the stove. You’ll stir the sauce from time to time. As the water in the sauce cooks off, you’ll want to add more but you don’t want to add more than 1-2 c at a time or you’ll have boiled meat sauce (bleh) rather than something thick and robust with flavor. Taste it from time to time and add more seasoning if needed. Simmer for 3-4 hr. You’ll have ~8-8 1/2 c of sauce but will only need 4 for the lasagna. Discard the thyme and bay leaves and put half in the fridge for lasagna assembly tomorrow and the other half in the freezer for up to a couple months. Ours was still as good as day one after 6 weeks.

Pasta:
1 1/2 c all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 tsp table salt
1-2 tbsp water, if needed

Combine all of the pasta ingredients in a food processor. Run the machine until the mixture begins to form a ball. You’re looking for a dough that is firm but not sticky. If needed, add water a drop at a time until it comes together. Place ball of dough on a lightly floured surface and invert a bowl over it. Let it rest for an hour. (You’ll have about 10 oz or a little less than 2/3 lb of fresh pasta dough.) Get your work area ready; I like to line a large tray with waxed paper. Dust the waxed paper with flour. Keep more waxed paper and flour nearby. Working with a quarter of the dough at a time, run in through your pasta roller on the widest setting (usually “0”), then repeat this process with the roller set increasingly smaller (1, 2, 3) until the pasta is very thin. My Atlas machine goes to 9 but I almost always stop at 8 because this setting makes for thin, delicate pasta that’s not so fragile that I’m pulling my hair out with frustration trying to move it around. If you find your dough sticking, lightly flour it. If it gets too big to handle, cut it in half. If the piece gets too wide for the machine or becomes annoyingly irregularly shaped, I re-“fold” the dough by folding the sides of the dough into the middle, like an envelope, and press it flat. Then, run the piece back through the machine with the open sides up and down on the widest setting again (0) working your way thinner. This allows the machine to “press” any trapped air out. Lay your pasta on the floured waxed paper in a single layer, trying to keep the pieces from touching. Flour the tops of them and place another sheet of floured wax paper on top. Repeat this process with the remaining dough and as many layers of pasta you need. Cut your pasta lengths into square-ish shapes. The fun thing about making fresh pasta for lasagna is that the shape doesn’t much matter; you’re going to tile together whatever you have and nobody will care if it took 9 or 16 bits to patch the layer together. Bring a large pot of water to boil. Have ready a skimmer, a large bowl of ice water and a large tray or platter that you’ve drizzled or spritzed with oil. Boil several of squares of noodle at a time for 1-2 mi each (1 min if you, indeed, went to the thinnest setting on your machine; 2 if you, like me, stopped one shy of thinnest). Scoop them out with your skimmer, swish them in the ice water and lay them out (still wet is fine) on the oiled platter. Repeat with remaining pasta. It’s okay to have your noodles touch; they shouldn’t stick together in the short period of time until you begin assembling but if you’re nervous, you can drizzle or spritz each layer very lightly with more oil. 

Béchamel:
1/2 c (8 tbsp) unsalted butter
1/2 c ap flour
4 c whole milk
1 tsp table salt
1 clove minced garlic
freshly grated nutmeg, to taste
freshly ground black pepper

Melt your butter in the bottom of a medium-to-large saucepan over medium heat. Once melted, add your flour and stir it into the butter until smooth. Cook the mixture together for a min, stirring constantly. Pour in a small drizzle of your milk, whisking constantly into the butter-flour mixture until smooth. Continue to drizzle a very small amount at a time, whisking constantly. Once you’ve added a little over half of your milk, you’ll find that you have more of a thick sauce or batter, and you can start adding the milk in larger splashes, being sure to keep mixing. Once all of the milk is added, add the salt, garlic, nutmeg (if using) and few grinds of black pepper, and bring the mixture to a lower simmer and cook it, stirring frequently, for 10 min. Taste and adjust seasonings if needed.

Assembly:
1 2/3 c grated Parmesan cheese

Preheat oven to 400F. In a 9×13" or equivalent rectangular baking dish, spread a generous 1/4 c of the béchamel. I mostly use this to keep the noodles from sticking. Add your first layer of cooked noodles, patching and slightly overlapping them however is needed to form a single layer. Ladle 1 cup bolognese sauce over the noodles, spreading it evenly. Drizzle 1/2 c béchamel over the bolognese; don’t worry about getting it perfectly smooth or even. Sprinkle the layer with 1/3 c parmesan cheese. Repeat this process — pasta + 1 c bolognese + 1/2 c béchamel + 1/3 c parmesan — three more times, then add one more layer of pasta. You’ll use 5 layers of pasta total. There are two ways to finish the dish. You can simply sprinkle the top layer of pasta with your remaining parmesan before baking. This makes the crunchiest lid. I like a semi-crunchy lid and first spread 1/4 c béchamel over the top layer of pasta before sprinkling it with the remaining cheese. It still gets crunchy — and has corners that are worth fighting over — but never unpleasantly so. Bake your lasagna for 30-45 min, until bubbly all over and browned on top. You should do absolutely nothing but put your feet up and drink a glass of wine while you do; you’ve earned it. When it comes out of the oven, I like to let it rest for 10 min before serving it. Lasagna can be prepared right up until the baking point a day in advance, and kept wrapped in plastic in the fridge.
