Lemon Pistachio Sticky Buns
  --Sur la Table

Dough:
1 1/4 c warm water (110-115F)
1 tbsp instant yeast
1 tsp sugar
3 eggs
1 tbsp honey
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled
4 1/2 c unbleached ap flour + more if needed
1 tbsp fine kosher salt
1 tsp vegetable oil

Lightly grease an 9" x 13" pan. To a small bowl, add the warm water and sugar and stir to combine. Sprinkle the yeast over the water, cover with plastic wrap, and let stand until the yeast is foamy and begins to release bubbles, ~5 min. Stir to dissolve, if necessary. To a small bowl, add the eggs, honey, and butter and whisk together to combine.  Add the bloomed yeast water mixture into the eggs and with a wooden spoon, stir to combine. To a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, combine the flour, salt, and cardamom; mix on stir briefly to combine. Turn the mixer up to low speed and add the yeast mixture. Once the yeast mixture is incorporated, turn the mixer up to medium speed. Continue to knead with the dough hook until the dough is smooth, elastic and the dough comes together and pulls away from the sides of the bowl, ~5 min. Alternatively, you can knead the dough by hand on a floured surface for about 10 minutes. If the dough is sticky add an additional 1/2 c of flour. Remove the dough from the stand mixer bowl and on a lightly floured surface, form it into a smooth ball.  To a large mixing bowl, add the vegetable oil and, using your hand, spread the oil to evenly grease the bowl. Add the dough to the bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature for 1 - 1 1/2 hr, or until doubled in bulk. 


Filling:
1/2 c lemon curd
2 tbsp lemon zest
1/2 tsp ground cardamom
3 tbsp sugar
1 tsp kosher salt
1 stick unsalted butter, room temperature
1 c toasted pistachios, roughly chopped

Preheat oven to 350F. To a medium bowl, add the lemon curd, zest, cardamom, sugar, salt, and butter. Use a fork to mash the ingredients together, set aside. Prepare a lightly floured surface and place the dough on it. Using a rolling pin, roll the dough into an 12x16" rectangle. Using an offset spatula, spread the butter mixture evenly across the dough. Sprinkle the pistachios over top. Starting with a long side, gently roll the dough into a log, pinching the edge to seal and resting the log on its seam.Trim the ends off the log, then divide and cut into 12 pieces and transfer the rolls to the prepared pan, arranging the rolls cut side up over the topping. Loosely cover the pan with plastic wrap and let the rolls rise at room temperature until nearly doubled, ~45-60 min. Remove the plastic wrap and transfer the proofed rolls to a preheated oven. Bake for 25-30 min until the rolls are golden brown, rotating the pan back to front after 15 minutes. Remove the rolls from the oven, and cool for at least 20 min before frosting.

Frosting:
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
4 c confectioners' sugar, sifted
1/4 tap fine kosher salt
3 tbsp whole milk
1 tbsp lemon zest
2 tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice + more if desired
2 tbsp lemon curd

To a medium bowl add the frosting ingredients and whisk to combine, using the milk to thin it out as needed.


