Low Sugar Blueberry Scones
  --America's Test Kitchen

3/4 c heavy cream
1 large egg + 1 yolk
1/3 c (1 3/4 oz) sucanat
2 c (10 oz) ap flour
1 tbsp baking powder
3/4 tsp salt
10 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1/2" pieces and chilled
7 1/2 oz (1 1/2 c) blueberries

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 450 F. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and place in second baking sheet. Whisk heavy cream, egg, and yolk together in small bowl. Measure out 1 tbsp cream mixture and set aside. Grind sucanat in spice grinder until fine and powdery, ~1 m. In food processor, pulse ground sucanat, clour, baking powder, and salt to combine, about 10 pulses. Scatter chilled butter evenly over top and pulse until mixture resembles coarse cornmeal, 12-14 pulses. Transfer mixture to large bowl. Fold cream mixture into flour mixture with rubber spatula until just combined. Transfer dough to well floured surface. Dust dough withflour, and using floured hands, knead dough 2-3 times, until it just holds together in ragged bal, adding flour as needed to prevent sticking. Roll dough into rough 12" square, sprinkle blueberries over top, and press them lightly into dough. Using bench scraper, loosen dough from counter and roll into tight log. With dough seam side down, gently press into 12x4" rectangle. Using floured bench scraper or chef's knife, cut dough crosswise into 4 equal rectangles. Cut each rectangle diagonally into 2 triangles. Lay scones on prepared baking sheet, spaced ~2" apart, and brush with reserved cream mixture. Bake scones until dark golden brown, 20-22 min, rotating sheet halfway through baking. Let scones cool on baking sheet for 5 min, then transfer to wire rack and let cool for 10 min before serving.


Notes: Can skip grinding the sucanat, but the scones will have a speckled appearance. Frozen blueberries can be used inplace of fresh. Can substitute 1/4 c (1 3/4 oz) granulated sugar, scones will be lighter in color and less sweet, do not grind sugar.
