Basic Macaron
  --Hisako Ogita

2/3 c almond meal
1 1/2 c powdered sugar
3 large egg whites, room temp and preferably aged up to 3 days
5 tbsp sugar
1 tsp vanilla

Preheat oven to 280F and position 2 racks in the lower section of the oven. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. If your almond meal is very coars, grind it with powdered sugar in a food processor until fine. Sift the resulting mixture twice. Place egg whites in a bowl of a stand mixer (or use hand mixer) and begin to beat on medium high. When the eggs are frothy, gradually add sugar 1 tbsp at a time until fully incorporated. Continue to beat the egg white mixture until glossy and stiff peaks form when you lift the beater. Gently stir in the vanilla. Be careful not to overbeat the meringue. Add half the sifted almond mixture, and gently fold it into the meringue using a flexible silicone spatula. Lift from the bottom, up around the sides, and toward the middle, being careful not to overagitate the meringue and lose too much air. Once the almond mixture is predominantly incorporated, add the second half and repeat folding. When it's just incorporated, you will need to transform the batter into the appropriate texture. Using the flat of the spatula, punch down into the center of the batter, then scrape more batter from the sides to the center, and punch again. You will need to repeat this 10-15 times (or more, depending on your arm strength and the beginning texture of your batter) until the batter slowly and continuously drips back into the bowl when you scoop it up with the spatula. Think of the consistency of molten lava. For best results, punch the batter a few times, check consistency, then punch a few times more, etc. Do not make the batter too runny or the macarons won't rise as they should and you can end up with oil stains on the surface. Pour batter into a pastry bag fitted with a 0.4" tip. In a punch you can use a gallon ziploc bag, just snip a teeny bit from one of the bottom corners. Twist and clip the top of the bag to avoid overflow. Pipe out 1" rounds onto prepared baking sheets. Holding the baking sheet in both hands, rap each baking sheet firmly on the counter 2-3 times. This smooths out the tops and help form the pied or frilly foot on the bottoms. Allow the piped macarons to dry, uncovered, for at least 15 min, if the batter is still sticky, let it dry longer. This can take up to an hour on humid days. Place both baking sheets in the oven and bake for 15-18 min. After the first 2 min, open oven to allow any excess humidity to escape. Rotate sheets halfway. The macarons are done when they are baked all the way through and the shalls are just hard. Remove from the oven and cool on the sheet. Makes ~4 dozen macaon halves

Buttercream filling
7 tbsp unsalted butter, softened
2 egg yolks
1/4 c sugar
3 1/2 tbsp milk
1 tsp vanilla

Cut butter into pieces and mash with a spatula until the consistency resembles mayonaise. In a small bowl, whisk the egg yolks, then add the sugar and whisk until the mixture lightens to an off-white and you can no longer see the granules of sugar. Add the milk and whisk to combine. Pour the egg mixture into a small saucepan and heat over low heat, whisking frequently to ensure the mixture does not curdle or scorch. Cook until mixture becomes thick and custardy, like pudding. Pour the egg mixture back into its bowl, and whisk constantly until it returns to room temp. Whisk in the butter in three batches, add the vanilla, and stir until smooth and all ingredients are fully combined. Pipe or spread onto one macaron half and sandwhich between the other. Makes enough for 2 dozen macarons.


Notes: Always add dry flavorings to the almond meal and the extracts/gel color to the meringue. Ex. tsp of dutch process cocoa, 1/4 tsp rose extract, etc.
