Madzoon ov Kofte (Armenian yogurt and meatball soup)
  --Cooks Illustrated
  
8 oz 85% lean ground beef
3 tbsp water
1 3/4 tsp table salt, divided
1/4 tsp baking soda, divided
1/2 c medium-grind bulgur, rinsed
1/4 c chopped fresh cilantro, divided
2 tsp ground dried Aleppo pepper, divided
1 tsp ground coriander
1/2 tsp pepper, divided
4 tbsp unsalted butter, divided
1 onion, chopped fine
1 tsp dried mint
4 cups chicken broth
15 oz can chickpeas, undrained
4 oz (1 c) small pasta shells
1 1/2 c plain Greek yogurt
1 large egg yolk

Toss beef with water, 1 tsp salt, and 1/8 tsp baking soda in bowl until thoroughly combined. Add bulgur, 1 tbsp cilantro, 1 tsp Aleppo pepper, coriander, and 1/4 tsp pepper and mix by hand until uniform. Transfer meat mixture to cutting board and press into 6" square. Using bench scraper or sharp knife, divide mixture into 36 squares (6x6 rows). Using your lightly moistened hands, roll each square into smooth ball and leave on cutting board. Melt 2 tbsp butter in large saucepan over medium heat. Add onion, mint, remaining 3/4 tsp salt, remaining 1/8 tsp baking soda, and remaining 1/4 tsp pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until onion has broken down into soft paste and is just starting to stick to saucepan, 6-8 min. Add broth, chickpeas and their liquid, and meatballs to saucepan. Increase heat to high and bring to boil. Adjust heat to maintain simmer and cook for 5 min, stirring occasionally. Add pasta and continue to cook until pasta is tender. While pasta cooks, whisk yogurt and egg yolk together in large bowl. Remove saucepan from heat. Using ladle, transfer 1 1/2 c broth to liquid measuring cup (try to avoid meatballs, pasta, and chickpeas). Whisking vigorously, gradually add broth to yogurt mixture. Add half of yogurt-broth mixture back to saucepan and stir to combine. Stir in remaining yogurt-broth mixture. Cover and let sit for 10 min to thicken. Heat soup over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until temperature registers between 180-185 F (do not allow soup to boil or yogurt will curdle). Remove from heat. Broth should have consistency of buttermilk; if thicker, adjust by adding hot water, 2 tbsp at a time. Stir in 1 tbsp cilantro and season with salt to taste. Melt remaining 2 tbsp butter in small skillet over medium-high heat. Off heat, stir in remaining 1 tsp Aleppo pepper. Ladle soup into bowls, drizzle each portion with 1 tsp spiced butter, sprinkle with remaining 2 tbsp cilantro, and serve. (Leftovers can be refrigerated for up to 3 days; reheat gently, being careful not to allow temperature to exceed 180 F. If necessary, thin by adding water, 2 tbsp at a time.)


Notes: If Aleppo pepper is unavailable, substitute 2 tsp of paprika and a pinch of cayenne. Do not sub fresh mint for dried; if unavailable, just omit.
