Mapu Tofummus
  --Mandy Lee
  
Garlic confit & tofummus
3 garlic cloves, smashed and peeled
1 tbsp canola oil
1/2 tsp fish sauce
1 lb (450 g) firm tofu
1 1/2 tsp toasted sesame oil
1/3 tsp fine sea salt

Place the garlic and oil in a small pot over low heat, tilting the pot so the ingredients can gather into a small pool on a corner of the pot. Turn the garlic a few times until the exterior is golden brown. Remove from the heat and add the fish sauce, swirling it around. Set aside. Pat the tofu dry with a clean towel and place it in a food processor. Run the processor for 1-2 min, until the tofu is smoothly puréed. Add the garlic confit sauce, sesame oil, and salt and process again until incorporated. The tofummus should still be quite dull in flavor at this point. Let the tofummus sit in the fridge for at least 1 hr to become slightly cool.

Mapo sauce & assembly:
3 oz (90 g) ground pork or beef
1 tsp + 1 tbsp toasted sesame oil
1/2 tsp potato starch or cornstarch
3 tbsp canola oil
1 tbsp doubanjiang (Sichuan broad bean chile paste)
1 tbsp mushroom powder (dried ground shiitake mushrooms)
1/2 tsp finely minced fermented black beans (or 1 tsp of the darkest miso you can find)
1/2 - 3/4 tsp gochugaru (Korean chile flakes)
2 garlic cloves, grated
2 tsp grated ginger
1 tsp ground Sichuan peppercorns + more for dusting
1/8 tsp ground cumin
2 tbsp Shaoxing wine or sherry
1/4 c chicken stock
1 1/2 tsp apricot jam
1/4 tsp ground white pepper
splash rice vinegar
finely diced scallions, for serving

In a small bowl, mix the ground pork (or beef) with 1 tsp of the sesame oil and the potato starch (or cornstarch) until smooth. In a small saucepan, heat the canola oil and the remaining 1 tbsp sesame oil over medium-high heat. Add the ground meat, breaking it up as finely as you can with a wooden spoon, and cook until evenly browned. Add the doubanjiang, mushroom powder, fermented black beans or dark miso, and gochugaru and cook, stirring often, for 1-2 min, until the gochugaru turns dark maroon in color. Add the garlic, ginger, Sichuan peppercorns, and cumin and cook until just fragrant, ~1 min. Add the wine, scraping any caramelization that is sticking to the sides and bottom of the pan, and cook until the alcohol has evaporated. Add the stock, jam, white pepper, and vinegar, turn the heat to low, and simmer until the liquid has reduced by half and is slightly thickened. Serve the tofummus covered in warmed mapo sauce, topped with finely diced scallions and more ground Sichuan peppercorns and gochugaru.


