Frozen Margarita Pie

Crust
8 whole graham crackers (4 1/2oz)
1/3 c ap flour
1/4 c sugar
1/8 tsp salt
6 tbsp unsalted butter, melted

Break the graham crackers apart and place in a food processor along with the flour, sugar, and salt. Pulse until finely ground. With the food processor running, pour the butter in a steady stream until moist crumbs form. Transfer to an 8" pie tin (disposable) and press down on the bottom and 1" up the sides. Freeze for 1 hr, until the pie shell sets.

Margarita Curd
1/2 c lime juice
1/4 c tequila
3/4 c sugar
3 large eggs + 1 yolk
1/2 lb (2 sticks) unsalted butter, chilled and cut into small cubes

In a large heatproof bowl, whisk the lime juice, tequila, sugar, eggs, and egg yolk, and place over a medium saucepan of simmering water. Whisk continuously until a creamy, thick custard consistency forms, 6-8 min, or until it registers 175F on a thermometer. Gradually whisk in the cubes of butter until incorporated and remove from heat. Pour the custard through a fine-mesh strainer into a medium bowl, then pour the strained mixture into the pie crust. Freeze until completely firm, 4-6 hrs.

Blueberry compote
1 pint (2 c) blueberries
2 tbsp water
2 tbsp sugar 1 tbsp fresh lime juice

In a medium saucepan, combine the blueberries, water, and sugar, and shake to coat the clueberries. Bring to a boil. Remove the lid and simmer until most of the berries have burst and the liquid has reduced to a syrup, 8-10 min. Remove from the heat and stir in the lime juice. Transfer to a non-reactive bowl and chill. Makes 1 1/2 c of compote. Can be made up to 5 days in advance.

Whipped cream
1 1/2 c heavy cream
1 tbsp powdered sugar
1 tsp finely grated lime zest
1 tbsp tequila
1 tsp flakey sea salt
Coarse green sanding sugar (for garnish)

In a large bowl or mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, whisk the heavy cream, powdered sugar, lime zest, and tequila until medium peaks form. Remove the pie from the freezer 15 min before serving and pipe or spread the whipped cream on top. Sprinkly with flakey sea salt and, using a spoon, top with 3/4 c of the blueberry compote. Sprinkle the green sanding sugar around thesides of the pie and serve.


