Marshmallow Fondant

16 oz mini marshmallows
2 lb powdered sugar
1 tbsp water
1 tsp corn syrup (optional)1 tsp lemon extract (optional)

Put marshmallows into a large microwave safe bowl and add water. Microwave until the marshmallows are puffed up and soft looking (~2 min) Grease wodden spoon. Add corn syrup and lemon extract (if using). The corn syrup helps with flexibility of fondant after it reaches room temp. The mixture should be kind of soupy as you stir and the marshmallows should be dissolved. If you want to color the entire batch, add now rather than kneading it in later. Gradually stir in sugar until you have added about 2/3 of it. Stop when it becomes difficult to continue to stir with the spoon. Turn out onto a greased surface. Keeping in mind that it's molten, carefully begin kneading with your hands and gradually add in the rest of the sugar. You'll want to stop kneading when the fondant stops absorbing the sugar, and it actually feels like warm fondant. You may want to keep shortening handy in case you need to grease your hands again. Knead on greased surface until smooth. Place in airtight storage (ziploc) until cool enough to use (will be too warm when done kneading). When you are ready to use, grease your work surface with shortening and a paper towel. Be sure to cover every spot it may touch. If the mmf is too hard, microwave for 5s increments until it is kneadable. Coat your hands with shortening before working on fondant. Roll out and use as you would any other fondant.

Notes:
This recipe makes 3 lbs of MMF. Store by wrapping as airtight as possible (double-bagged in ziploc bags works well). It will keep for a month or so. Just pop it in the microwave for 5-second increments and use your hands covered with shortening to make it soft and workable again. You'll know when the MMF is no longer "good". It will be hard as a rock and will not soften up in the microwave. Then it's time to toss it and make some more!
Can do it by hand & add glycerin (food grade) while kneading to help keep it soft. Rohit does not use corn syrup or lemon
