Masala Dosa

Dosa:
2 c short grain rice
6 c water, divided
1/2 c split husked black lentils (urad dal)
1 tsp fenugreek seeds
1 tsp salt
vegetable oil

In a medium bowl, add the rice and cover with 2 c of cold water, or enough for there to be 1" of water above the rice. In another bowl, add the lentils, fenugreek, and 2 c of cold water to cover. Let both soak for 6 hrs, then strain. In a blender, combine the rice with 1 c cold water and blend until smooth. Transfer to a bowl. Repeat the process with the lentils and 1 c of water, add to the pureed rice. Stir until smooth and cover loosely with a kitchen towl. Let sit out for at least 12 hrs, or up to 2 days to ferment, then stir in the salt.

Filling:
1/4 c ghee or vegetable oil
1 tsp brown mustard seeds
1/2 tsp cumin seeds
1 medium yellow onion, diced
1/2 tsp tumeric
6 curry leaves
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 green thai chile, finely chopped
2" piece ginger, grated
pinch asafoetida (vandevi hing)
1 1/2 lb yukon gold potatoes, peeled and cubed
1 c water
1/2 c roughly chopped cilantro

In a large skillet, heat the ghee over medium heat. Toast the mustard and cumin seeds until fragrant, 1 min. Add the onion and cook until softened and lightly golden, 9 min. Stir in the tumeric, curry leaves, garlic, thai chile, ginger, and asafoetida. Cook until fragrant and the leaves have wilted, 1 min. Add the potatoes and water. Cover with a lid and allow the potatoes to simmer over medium low heat until the potatoes are fully cooked, 15 min. Once finished, stir to incorporate the potatoes further, lightly mashing as you stir. Stir in the cilantro and keep warm until ready to serve. Heat a 12" cast iron skillet over medium heat. Brush very lightly with vegetable oil. Ladle 1/2 c of the batter in the center of the pan. Using the bottom of the ladle, quickly spread the batter out to fill the diameter of the pan. Cook, without flipping until golden brown and the edges begin to curl, 1-2 min. Spoon 1/3 c of the potato filling in a strip along the center of the dosa. Using a spatula, fold the sides of the dosa around the filling to make a cylindrical shape. Transfer to a plate. Continue, 1 dosa at a time, until all are made. Serve immediately.
