Matzo Ball Posole
  --Jon Sloan

Posole:
5 lb chicken bones
2 poblano peppers
2 jalapeno peppers
4 green onions
vegetable oil
2 small onions, cut into wedges
1 carrot, peeled and cut into chunks
2 tbsp tomato paste
1/2 c red wine
5 garlic cloves, smashed
2 dried pasilla peppers
2 dried guajillo peppers
1 c canned crushed tomatoes
1/2 bunch parsley sprigs
1/2 bunch cilantro sprigs
4 thyme sprigs
2 bay leaves
1 tbsp black peppercorns
1 tbsp smoked paprika
1 tbsp dark chili powder
3 qt chicken stock
1 1/2 c water
1 tbsp kosher salt
lime juice

Preheat oven to 450F. On a sheet pan toss together the bones, poblanos, jalapenos, and green onions in vegetable oil. Roast for 20-25 min until the bones are golden brown and the vegetables well charred. In a large stockpot, saute onions and carrots over medium high heat until well browned, 5-6 min. Add the tomato paste and cook for another 2-3 min until caramelized. Deglaze with the red wine. Add the remaining ingredients and simmer for at least 2 hrs. Reserve any chicken fat that floats to the top to make the matzo balls. Strain through a mesh strainer and keep warm on the stove. Just when about to serve, season with salt, pepper, and lime juice to taste.

Mazto Balls:
3 eggs
1/4 c rendered chicken fat
2 tbsp finely chopped cilantro
1/2 tsp chili powder
3/4 c + 2 tsp mazto meal
1 1/2 tsp chicken bouillon
1/4 tsp baking soda
1/4 tsp baking powder
3 qt chicken broth (or water mixed with chicken bouillon)

Whisk together the eggs, chicken fat, cilantro, and chili powder. In a separate bowl, combine the matzo, bouillon, baking soda, and baking powder. Fold the dry ingredients into the wet until just incorporated, do not over mix. Cover with plastic wrap and chill for at least 30 min. In a large wide pot, bring chicken broth to a simmer. Roll the matzo dough into 6 balls, gently pinching together any cracks. Add to the broth, cover with lid and simmer on low for 15 min. Flip the balls, cover again, and let cook for another 30 min. Remove them from the pot and allow to rest for at least 10 min before serving. Reserve cooking liquid for another use.

Assembly:
shredded chicken meat
diced avocado
shredded cabbage
sliced raddishes
cilantro leaves
fried tortilla strips
lime wedges

Place shredded chicken and matzo ball in a bowl. Ladle the hot posole broth and top with the garnishes as desired.
