Meat Doria
  --Namiko Chen

2 rice cooker cups Japanese short-grain rice
1/2 onion, finely chopped
1 stalk celery, finely chopped
1 carrot, finely chopped
6 mushrooms, sliced
2 tbsp evoo
1 bay leaf
12 oz ground beef (preferably beef 70% & pork 30%)
4 tbsp red wine
14.5 oz can diced tomatoes
1/2 tsp sugar
3-4 c vegetable stock (or chicken stock; You need the broth just enough to cover the ingredients, not ALL 4 c in the recipe.)
3 tbsp ketchup
3 tbsp tonkatsu sauce (or Worcestershire sauce)
1 tbsp unsalted butter
kosher/sea salt (I use Diamond Crystal; Use half for table salt)
freshly ground black pepper

Topping:
3/4-1 c grated Mozzarella cheese
3/4-1 c grated parmesan cheese
2-3 tbsp panko (Japanese breadcrumbs)
chopped parsley (fresh, to garnish)

Cook rice. In a large skillet, heat oil on medium high and cook the bay leaf until fragrant. Add onion and celery and saute until soft. Add mushroom and carrot and cook until soft. Add meat and red wine, break up the meat. When the meat is almost cooked, add tomatoes with their juice and the sugar. Then add vegetable broth just enough until all the ingredients are covered (Don't put too much; You will need to reduce the cooking liquid until it's almost evaporated). Add ketchup and tonkatsu sauce and bring it to a boil. Remove excess fat from sauce (if any). Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer (without a lid) until most liquid is evaporated. When you move the meat sauce and see the bottom of the skillet, it’s done cooking. Add the butter and season with salt and pepper to taste. Butter the baking dish(es) and add the cooked rice. Pour meat sauce over rice; top with panko and cheeses. Set the oven setting to broil (high) and broil for 2-3 min until the cheese is nicely melted and turns golden color. Garnish with parsley and serve.



Notes: Took an hour to reduce the cooking liquid with only 3 c stock. Did not add any salt at the end, was plenty salty. Can use cooking spray to grease baking dishes. Made a double recipe that mostly filled 2 9x13" casseroles. No mention in original recipe of when to remove bay leaf, would suggest when skimming excess fat.
