Meatballs

10 oz ground pork
5 oz ground chuck
5 oz ground veal
2 ounces pancetta, finely chopped
1/4 c lard
1 c fine white bread crumbs
3 tbsp finely chopped flat parsley
2 tbps finely chopped fresh oregan (or 2 tsp dried)
1 1/2 tsp toasted fennel seeds, ground
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp crushed red pepper flakes
1/4 tsp ground allspice
1/2 c whole-milk ricotta
2 tbsp whole milk
2 large eggs, beaten
olive oil for greasing

In a large mixing bowl, combine the pork, beef, veal, pancetta, lard, bread crumbs, parsley, oregano, ground fennel, salt, red pepper flakes, and allspice. Using your hands, combine all of the ingredients until evenly mixed. In a separate large mixing bowl, whisk together the ricotta, milk, and eggs. Add the mixture to the meat and gently mix until just incorporated, careful not to overwork the meat. Cover and chill in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour and up to 2 days.

Sauce

2 tbsp olive oil
1 c yellow onion finely diced (1 small onion)
1/2 c dry red wine
1x28 oz can crushed tomatoes
1 c water
kosher salt
finely grated grana padano for serving

In a large, wide saucepan over medium high heat, warm the olive oil. Add the onion and cook, stirring often, until soft, 4-5min. Add the wine and cook until reduced to a glaze, 2-4 min. Add the tomatoes and water, and bring to a boil. Season with salt and keep warm while you form the meatballs.


Adjust the oven racks to the middle position and preheat oven to 375F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper and grease each one with olive oil. Remove the meat from the refrigerator and, using your hands, form large golf ball size meatballs, placing them onto the prepared baking sheets. Bake until brown, 10-12 min, flipping the meatballs and trays halfway through baking. Transfer the meatballs to the sauce and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Cover, reduce the heat to low and cook until tender, 20-25 min. 

The meatballs can be made uo to 2 days in advance. Let cool, cover and chill. Reheat them over medium low heat in the sauce before serving.
