Meyer Lemon Souffle

3 tbsp unsalted butter at room temp, cubed + more for greasing ramekins
castor sugar for dusting ramekins
2 large egg yolks
3 tbsp granulated sugar
1 1/2 tbsp cornstarch
1/3 c warm milk
1/4 c fresh meyer lemon juice + 1 1/2 tsp finely grated zest
1 1/2 tsp vanilla
5 large egg whites at room temp
2/3 tsp cream of tartar
pinch kosher salt
1 tbsp granulated sugar
confectioners' sugar for dustin

Preheat oven to 375F. Using a pastry brush, butter 4x10oz ramekins using an upward brushstroke. Lighltly dust each ramekin with castor sugar, shaking out the excess. Place the ramekins in the refrigerator for 5-10 min so that the butter solidifies. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the egg yolks and sugar until the yolks have nearly doubled in size and have become thick and yellow. Whisk in the cornstarch, then slowly add half of the warm milk to temper the eggs, whisking constantly to prevent the yolks from curdling. Return the mixture to a 2 quart saucepan with the remaining milk over medium low heat, whisking constantly until slightly thickened, 5-6 min. Remove the saucepan from the heat and whisk in the butter, lemon juice and zest, and vanilla. Transfer to a large mixing bowl and press plastic wrap directly on to the surface of the pastry cream and allow it to sit at room temp for 15 min. In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat the egg whites, cream of tartar, and a pinch of salt together until foamy. Continue to beat while gradually adding 1 tbsp of sugar until stiff, glossy peaks form. Stir 1/3 of the egg whites into the lemon mixture, then fold in the remaining whites until there are no streaks, making sure not to overmix. Fill the batter to the top of each ramekin and flatten using an offset spatula or butter knife. Using your thumb, wipe around the inside rim to remove any batter and to help the souffle rise evenly. Bake the souffles in the venter of the oven on a wire rack set over a rimmed baking sheet for 12-14 min or until just firm, risen and golden brown on top. Dust the tops with confectioners' sugar and serve immediately. The souffles will begin to deflate within 5 min.
