Mille-Crepe Tiramisu Cake
  --Francisco Migoya

Crepes:
3/4 c + 2 tbsp cake flour
3/4 c + 1 tbsp ap flour
1/4 c sugar
2 tsp kosher salt
4 large eggs
5 large egg yolks
1 stick (8 tbsp) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly
2 c whole milk
3 tbsp armagnac or cognac

In a fine mesh sieve set over a medium bowl, sift together the flours and sugar. Whisk in the salt. In another medium bowl, whisk together the eggs and yolks. Add egg mixture to the flour and whisk until smooth and webby. In a slow, steady stream, whisk in the butter, then the milk, and the armagnac, until the batter is smooth. If there are any lumps, strain batter through a fine mesh sieve. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate 1 hr. Line a baking sheet with parchment. Set an 8" nonstick skillet over medium high heat. Gently stir batter, then pour 1/4 c into the skillet. Holding the skillet by the handle, tilt and turn to quickly disperse the batter. Cook until the underside is golden brown, ~1 1/2 min. Lightly jerk the skillet to loosen the crepe, then flip. Cook the second side until golden brown, ~30 s, then slide the crepe onto the prepared baking sheet. Repeat until all batter is used (will make ~20 crepes, 18 are needed for the cake). Refrigerate crepes on baking sheet until completely chilled, at least 2 hrs or overnight.

Filling:
1 1/4 c confectioners' sugar
4 c mascarpone cheese
1/2 c sweet marsala wine (or half as much rum or coffee liquor)

In a fine mesh sieve set over the bowl of a stand mixer, sif the confectioners' sugar. Add the cheese and wine. Use paddle attachment to combine the mixture on low speed until well combined.

Assembly:
1/4 c cocoa powder

Remove crepes from the refrigerator. Add 1 crepe to bottom of 8" springform pan so it lies flat. Add 1/4 c of the filling to center of crepe and use a small offest spatula to evenly spread filling over crepe. Repeat with 17 more crepes and filling. Refrigerate the leftover filling and cake; cake should chill for at least 2 hrs or overnight. Remove cake from refrigerator, until springform pan and set on a cake plate. Spread the remaining filling on top of the cake. Add the cocoa powder to a fine mesh sieve and sprinkle it over the top of the cake. Slice and serve.
