Miso Fudge Brownies
  --Elaine Townsend

Brownies:
6 c (778 g) confectioners' sugar
4 c (400 g) almond flour
2 c (200 g) dutch process cocoa powder
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 c (250 g or ~7) egg whites
1/2 c + 2 tbsp peanut or canola oil
3 tbsp vanilla

Preheat oven to 350F. Line 18x13" half sheet pan with 18x17" piece parchment, so that there's enough overhang to lift brownies out. In a large bowl, sift together the sugar, flour, cocoa, and salt. Whisk to combine. In a separate bowl, stir together the egg whites, oil, and vanilla. Pour the wet ingredients into dry and mix together until you get a very stiff batter and all of the dry ingredients have been absorbed. Spread the dough as evenly as possible into prepared sheet and bake for 12-15 min, until the center is set and firm to the touch. Let cool.

Candied Almonds:
peanut or canola oil
4 c (400 g) sliced and toasted almonds
3/4 c sugar
1/4 c water
1/4 c coconut oil
1/2 tsp baking soda
1 tsp salt
3 tbsp white miso paste
1 tbsp sesame oil

Reduce oven to 300F. Grease a large bowl with peanut oil. Add the almonds and gently crush with your hands. In a saucepan, stir together the sugar and water. Cook over medium high heat for 6-8 min, until a dark caramel forms. You can swirl the pan occasionally, but do not stir. Reduce the heat to low and stir in the coconut oil, salt, and baking powder, before whisking in the miso paste. It's ok if the caramel looks separated due to the coconut oil. Immediately pour caramel over the almonds and stir to combine. Don't worry if you're not able to cover all the almonds, the caramel will melt and redistribute in the oven. Stir in the sesame oil to coat. Place the almonds in a single layer on a parchment lined sheet pan and bake for 10 min. Allow to cool completely before storing in an airtight container until ready to use.

Fudge:
3 tbsp unsalted butter
1 c sweetened condensed milk
2 c (287 g) chopped dark chocolate, min 64%
1/2 c white miso paste

In a saucepan, combine the butter, milk, and cocolate over medium low heat until the chocolate is melted. Whisk in the miso paste until smooth. Spread the fudge over the brownies and freeze the entire pan for at least 1 hr for easier slicing. Using the excess parchment, lift brownies out and cut into 18 pieces. When ready to serve, top each slice with candied almonds.

