Mixed Berry Scones
  --Cook's Country
  
1 3/4 c (8 3/4 oz) frozen mixed berries
3 tbsp confectioners' sugar
3 c (15 oz) ap flour
12 tbsp unsalted butter, chilled, cut into 1/2" pieces.
1/2 c (2 1/3 oz) sugar
1 tbsp baking powder
1 1/4 tsp salt
3/4 c + 2 tbsp whole milk
1 large egg + 1 yolk

Adjust rack to uper middle, heat oven to 425F. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. If your berry mix contains strawberries, cut them in half. Toss berries with confectioners’ sugar in bowl; freeze until needed. Combine flour, 6 tbsp butter,  sugar, baking powder, and salt in food processor and process until butter is fully incorporated, ~15 s. Add remaining 6 tbsp butter and pulse until butter is reduced to pea-size pieces, 10 -12 pulses. Transfer mixture to large bowl. Stir in berries. Beat milk and egg and yolk together in separate bowl. Make well in center of flour mixture and pour in milk mixture. Using rubber spatula, gently stir mixture, scraping from edges of bowl and folding inward until very shaggy dough forms and some bits of flour remain. Do not overmix. Turn out dough onto well floured surface and, if necessary, knead briefly until dough just comes together, ~3 turns.  Using your floured hands and bench scraper, shape dough into 12x4" rectangle, ~1 1/2" tall. Using knife or bench scraper, cut dough crosswise into 4 equal rectangles. Cut each rectangle diagonally into 2 triangles (you should have 8 scones total). Transfer scones to prepared sheet. Bake until scones are lightly golden on top, 16-18 min, rotating pan halfway through baking. 

Glaze:
2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
1 tbsp honey

While scones bake, combine melted butter and honey in small bowl. Remove scones from oven and brush tops evenly with glaze mixture. Return scones to oven and continue to bake until golden brown on top, 5-8 min longer. Transfer scones to wire rack and let cool for at least 10 min before serving.


Notes: Unbaked scones can be frozen for several weeks. After cutting scones into triangles and freeze on parchment lined baking sheet; transfer to zip top bag. When ready to bake, heat oven to 375F and extend cooking time to 23-26 min before glazing. An equal amount of frozen blueberries, raspberries, blackberries, or strawberries (halved) can be used in place of the mixed berries.
