Mochi Bread Doughnuts with Salted Honey & Cardamom
  --Mandy Lee
  
Dough:
1 c (117 g) sticky rice flour (sometimes called glutinous rice flour or mochiko flour)
1 c (235 g) boiling water
1 1/2 c (200 g) bread flour
1 1/2 c (190 g) all-purpose flour
1 large egg + 1 yolk
3 tbsp (46 g) granulated sugar
1 1/2 tsp instant dry yeast (if your kitchen is warmer than 78F/26C, use 1/4 tsp)
1 tsp sea salt
1 tbsp (13 g) unsalted butter

In a stand-mixer bowl fitted with the dough hook, add the sticky rice flour and boiling water and start mixing on low speed, scraping the sides a couple times. It will appear lumpy at first, then eventually it becomes a batter of sticky, shiny goo. When it does, turn off the heat and let it cool completely (I stick it in the freezer, covered, for 15 min). Then add the bread flour, ap flour, egg and egg yolk, sugar, yeast, and salt. Knead on low speed until the mixture comes together into a sticky dough (the dough may seem dry at first, but do not add water). Add the butter, scraping the sides and bottom of the bowl to help the butter incorporate evenly, and knead for 7-8 min, until the dough is extremely smooth and elastic. The dough should be sticky, but only sticking to the bottom of the bowl as the machine is running, leaving a thin opaque film on the sides of the bowl. If it’s too wet—sticking everywhere as the machine is running—add 1 tbsp of bread flour at a time and knead again until it looks right. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the dough rise at room temperature until doubled, 2-3 hr. Alternatively, let it rise in the refrigerator overnight, or up to 24 hr. If your kitchen is very warm (above 86F/30C), I recommend letting the dough sit in the freezer, covered, for 1 hr before transferring to the refrigerator.

Assembly:
ap flour, for dusting
1/4 c (60 ml) honey
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1/2 tsp sea salt
1/2 tsp ground green cardamom (see Author Notes)
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon

Once the dough is ready, transfer to a working surface dusted with flour and knead/punch out all the large air bubbles, then roll the dough into a large sheet about 3/8" (1 cm) thick. Use a 4" (10 cm) doughnut cutter to cut out doughnuts. You can do it with or without doughnut holes. Cut out a 5" (13 cm) square of parchment paper for each doughnut. Transfer the doughnuts onto the squares, set them aside on large sheet pans, and cover loosely with plastic wrap. Let them rise again until doubled (this will mostly show in thickness instead of width), 1 1/2 - 2 hr. Meanwhile, combine the honey, butter, and sea salt in a small saucepan and cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until the mixture has come to a simmer and the butter is melted. Set aside to let cool to room temperature and thicken, stirring a couple times to ensure evenness. Mix the cardamom and cinnamon in a small bowl and set aside. 

When the doughnuts are proofed, add 1 1/2" (4 cm) of canola oil to a deep frying pan. Heat over medium-high heat until the oil reaches 300F/150C. Lift one parchment paper with a doughnut on it and gently lower it into the frying oil (including the parchment). Use a fork or chopstick to press the parchment paper down so the hot oil can flood the bottom of the doughnut, which will release it from the parchment. When the parchment is free, remove it with tongs. Fry until one side of the doughnut is golden brown, ~1 min, then flip and fry until the other side is golden brown, about 1 minute more. If it takes way longer or shorter than 1 min for each side of the doughnut to brown, the oil is either too hot or too cold; adjust accordingly. Drain well and set aside on a cooling rack. Repeat to make the rest of the doughnuts. Drizzle the salted honey over the warm doughnuts and dust with the cardamom mixture (a little goes a long way). Enjoy immediately.


Notes: Grind whole green cardamom pods in a spice grinder until finely ground (you’ll need ~10 cardamom pods’ worth for the grinder to work).
