Mole Sencillo
  --Rick Martinez

1 large (123g) Roma tomato, cored
1/4 large (71g) white onion
6 medium (60g) chiles anchos, stemmed and seeded
1/3 c lard or vegetable oil
1/3 c (22g) animal crackers
1/4 c (40g) raw almonds
1/4 c (35g) raisins
1 tbsp (10g) untoasted sesame seeds
1 whole star anise
2 tbsp Diamond Crystal or 3 1/2 tsp Morton (15g) kosher salt
1 tbsp (16g) piloncillo or dark brown sugar
1 1/4 oz (35g) bittersweet chocolate, preferably 75% or more cacao
1 pinch toasted sesame seeds, for garnish

Line a medium skillet, preferably cast iron, with two sheets of foil and heat over high until very hot, ~2 min. Char tomato and onion, turning occasionally, until charred on all sides, 12-14 min. Transfer to a small plate and set aside until ready to use. Heat 3 tbsp lard in a large saucepan over medium-high until very hot, ~1 min. Working in batches, fry anchos, turning to coat in the lard, until fragrant, browned and toasted on both sides, ~30 s; transfer to medium bowl. Fry animal crackers, tossing frequently, until deep golden browned and crispy, 1-2 min; transfer to bowl with chiles. Add almonds, raisins, sesame seeds, and anise to the same pot and fry, stirring constantly until raisins puff and lighten and almonds are browned, 1-2 min. Add salt, sugar, 4 c water (or low-sodium chicken stock), chiles, animal crackers, tomato, and onion to the pot; bring to a boil; cover and reduce to a simmer and cook until chiles and almonds are very tender, ~30 min. Remove from heat and let sit covered for 20 min to cool slightly before blending. Transfer cooked chile mixture to the jar of a blender and. carefully blend on high until completely smooth. Rinse saucepan used to cook chiles until clean, wipe dry, and reserve. In the clean pot, heat remaining 2 tbsp lard over medium-high until very hot, ~1 min or until you see tiny wisps of smoke. Carefully pour blended mole into the hot lard, standing back from the pot; it will spit and sputter! Stir, scraping up any fried bits from the bottom of the pot; reduce heat to medium and continue cooking, stirring frequently, until top of mole is glossy and very thick, ~10 min. Stir in chocolate and remove from heat, continuing to stir until completely melted. Season with additional salt or sugar if necessary. Serve over roast chicken and top with toasted sesame seeds. 


Notes: can swap chiles, nuts, seeds, just keep weights the same. Can sub vegetable stock for water as well as chicken stock,
