Moqueca

2 lb yuca, peeled and medium diced, divided
2 c water
1 c spinach
2 plum tomatoes
1 jalapeno, stemmed and seeded
1/4 c grapeseed oil
6 garlic cloves, minced
2 medium carrots, medium diced
1 yellow onion, medium diced
1 celery stalk, medium diced
1 poblano pepper, medium diced
1/2 c green curry paste
2 tbsp tomato paste
1 lb (1 1/2c) okra, trimmed and sliced into 1/4" rings
8 c chicken stock
1/2 c fish sauce
4 kaffir lime leaves (preferrably fresh)
8 oz sal cod, soaked overnight
8 oz smoked salmon, roughly chopped
kosher salt and fresh ground black pepper to taste

In a blender, combine 3/4 of the yuca with the water, spinach, tomatoes, and jalapeno. Puree until smooth and set aside. In a large pot or dutch oven, heat the grapeseed oil over medium high heat. Add the garlic and cook until fragrant and golden, 1 min. Add the carrots, onion, celery, and poblano pepper, and cook, stirring often, until soft and caramelized, 8-10 min. Stir in the curry and tomato pastes, and cook until fragrant, 2 min. Add the remaining yuca, the puree, okra, chickenstock, fish sauce, and lime leaves. Bring to a simmerand cook, stirring often until the yuca is tender and the liquid is thickened, 20-25 min. Meanwhile, in a small pot, cover the salt cod with cold water, bring to a simmer over high heat, then immediately drain and rinse with cold water. Repeat 2 more times, then roughly chop the cod. Add the salt cod and the smoked salmon to the stew, and cook until the fish is opaque, 3-5 min. Season with salt and pepper, then keep warm until ready to serve.

Prawns
1 lb (12 medium) head on prawns, peeled and deveined
1/4 c chopped parsley
1 tsp red pepper flakes
1 tsp lemon zest
kosher salt to taste
2 tbsp grapeseed oil

In a medium bowl, toss the prawns with the parsley, red pepper flakes, and lemon zest. Season with salt. In a 12" skillet, heat the grapeseed oil over medium high heat. Add the prawns and cook, flipping once, until golden brown and cooked through, 2-3 min per side.


Assembly
Steamed rice
thinly sliced thai basil
thinly sliced green onions

Ladle stew over rice, top with pranws and garnish with herbs.

