Morning Buns

9 c bread flour, divided
1 tbsp + pinch active dry yeast, divided
2 1/4 c warm water
5 sticks (1 1/4 lbs) unsalted butter at room temp + 1 stick melted
1/2 c ap flour + extra for rolling
zest of 4 oranges
5 c granulated sugar, divided
1 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 c whole milk, warmed

In a large bowl stir together 4 c bread flour, water, and a pinch of yeast. Set aside at room temp for 20 min. In the bowl of a stand mixer add the 5 sticks of room temp butter and 1/2 c of ap flour and cream on low speed until combined. Increase the speed to medium low and beat until smooth. Transfer half of the butter (10oz) to a large sheet of plastic wrap and cover with another sheet of plastic wrap. Use a rolling pin to lightly roll the butter into a 8" but 6" rectangle that is about 1/2" thick. Repeat with the reamining butter and 2 more sheets of plastic wrap. To the bowl of a stand mixer add the flour water mixture, the remaining 5 c of bread flour, 1 c of sugar, 1 tsp of salt, warm milk, and the remaining 1 tbsp of yeast. Use a wooden spoon to combine the mixture until the ingredients are moistened. Set the bowl on the stand mixer and using the paddle attachment, beat the dough on medium speed until it is smooth (it will be loose). Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and divide in half. Wrap each half in plastic wrap and refrigerate 2-4 hrs. On a lightly floured work surface roll the dough to a 13x9" rectangle that is ~1" thick. Unwrap one of the butter rectangles and place it in the center of the dough (it won't completely cover the area). Fold the dough into thirds like a business letter. Repeat, rolling the dough to a 13x9" rectangle and giving it another fold. Wrap the dough with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hr. Repeat with the other piece of dough and butter. After 1 hr, repeate hte folding with each piece of dough twice. Refrigerate the dough 1 hr or overnight. Preheat oven to 400F. In a medium bowl, add the remaining 4 c of sugar and orange zest. Use your fingers to rub the mixture together until the sugar is fragrant and tinted. Set an extra large cupcake tin, several oven safe bowls, or several loaf pans on your work surface. Brush the interior of each vessel with some of the melted butter, then add 3 tbsp of the orange sugar (if using a loaf pan, use 6 tbsp of sugar as it fits 2 buns). Tile the vessel to evenly coat the bottom and sides. Set a piece of dough on a lightly floured work surface and roll it to a 15x9" rectangle. Spread 1 c of the orange sugar over the surface. Starting at the bottom, roll the dough up into a 15" long log. Divide the dough into 5 segments, each about 3" wide. Repeat with the other piece of dough. Set a dough segment into each cup/bowl/loaf pan, press down on it slightly and place the vessels on a rimmed baking sheet. Cover the baking sheet with plastic wrap and set aside to rest at room temp for 30 min. Bake the rolls until the tops are golden brown, ~30 min. Remove the tin from the oven and invert the rolls onto a parchment paper lined baking sheet. Once the rolls are cool, dip them into the remaining orange sugar before serving.
