Mu Shu Pork
  --America's Test Kitchen

Pancakes:
1 1/2 c (7 1/2 oz) ap flour
3/4 c boiling water
2 tsp toasted sesame oil
1/2 tsp vegetable oil

Using a wooden spoon, mix flour and water in bowl to form rough dough. When cool, transfer to lightly floured surface and knead until it forms ball that is tacky but not longer sticky, ~4 min (dough will not be perfectly smooth). Cover loosely with plastic wrap and let rest for 30 min. Roll dough into 12" long log on lightly floured surface and cut into 12 equal pieces. Turn each piece cut side up and pat into rough 3" disc. Brush 1 side of 6 discs with sesame oil; top each oiled side with unoiled disc and prss lightly to form 6 pairs. Roll discs into 7" rounds, lightly flouring work surface as needed. Heat vegetable oil in 12" nonstick skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Using paper towels, carefully wipe out oil. Place pancake in skillet and cook without moving it until air pockets begin to form between layers and underside is dry, 40-60 s. Flip pancake and cook until few light brown spots appear on second side, 40-60 s. Transfer to plate and, when cool enough to handle, peel apart into 2 pancakes. Stack pancakes moist side up and cover loosely with plastic. Repeat with remaining pancakes. cover pancakes tightly and keep warm. Wipe out skillet with paper towel. Pancakes can be wrapped tightly in plastic, then foil, and refrigerated for up to 3 days or frozen up to 2 months. Thaw to room temp and warm in microwave 60-90 s.

Filling:
1 oz dried shiitake mushrooms, rinsed
1/4 c shoyu, divided
2 tbsp dry sherry
1 tsp sugar
1 tsp grated fresh ginger
1/4 tsp white pepper
12 oz pork tenderloin, trimmed, halved horizontally, and sliced thin against the grain
2 tsp cornstarch
2 tbsp + 2 tsp vegetable oil
2 eggs, beaten
6 scallions, white and green parts separated and sliced thin on bias
8 oz can bamboo shoots, rinsed and sliced into matchsticks
3 c thinly sliced green cabbage
1/4 c hoisin sauce for serving

Microwave 1 c water and mushrooms in covered bowl until steaming, ~1 min. Let sit until softened, ~5 min. Drain using fine mesh strainer and reserve 1/3 c liquid. Discard mushroom stems and slice caps thin. Combine 2 tbsp shoyu, 1 tbsp sherry, sugar, ginger, and pepper in large bowl. Add pork and toss to combine. Whisk together reserved mushroom liquid, remaining 2 tbsp shoyu, sherry, and cornstarch; set aside. Heat 2 tbsp oil in now-empty skillet over medium high heat until shimmering. Add eggs and scramble quickly until set but not dry, ~15 s. Transfer to bowl and break eggs into 1/4-1/2" pieces with fork. Return now empty skillet to medium high heat and heat 1 tbsp oil until shimmering. Add scallion whites and cook, stirring frequently, until well browned, 60-90 s. Add pork mixture. Spread into even layer and cook without moving it until well browned on 1 side, 1-2 min. Stir and continue to cook, stirring frequently, until pork is opaque, 1-2 min. Transfer to bowl with eggs. Return now empty skillet to medium high heat and heat remaining 1 tbsp oil until shimmering. Whisk mushroom liquid mixture to recombine. Add mushrooms and bamboo shoots to skillet and cook, stirring frequently, until heated through, ~1 min. Add cabbage, all but 2 tbsp callion greens, and mushroom liquid mixture and cook, stirring constantly, until liquid has evaporated and cabbage is wilted but retains some crunch, 2-3 min. Add pork and eggs and stir to combine. Transfer to platter and top with scallion greens.

Spread ~1/2 tsp hoisin in center of pancake, spoon filling over, and eat.
