Mujaddara
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
Yogurt Sauce:
1 c plain whole milk yogurt
2 tbsp lemon juice
1/2 tsp minced garlic
1/2 tsp salt

Whisk all ingredients together in a small bowl. Refrigerate until ready to use.

Rice and Lentils:
8 1/2 oz (1 1/4 c) green or brown lentils, picked over and rinsed
Salt and pepper
1 1/4 c basmati rice
1 recipe Crispy Onions + 3 tbsp reserved oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tsp ground coriander
1 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1/2 tsp ground allspice
1/8 tsp cayenne pepper
1 tsp sugar
3 tbsp minced fresh cilantro

Bring lentils, 4 c water, and 1 tsp salt to boil in medium saucepan over high heat. Reduce heat to low and cook until lentils are tender, 15-17 min. Drain and set aside. While lentils cook, place rice in medium bowl and cover by 2" with hot tap water; let stand for 15 min. Using your hands, gently swish rice grains to release excess starch. Carefully pour off water, leaving rice in bowl. Add cold tap water to rice and pour off water. Repeat adding and pouring off cold tap water 4-5 times, until water runs almost clear. Drain rice in fine-mesh strainer. Heat reserved onion oil, garlic, coriander, cumin, cinnamon, allspice, 1/4 tsp pepper, and cayenne in Dutch oven over medium heat until fragrant, ~2 min. Add rice and cook, stirring occasionally, until edges of rice begin to turn translucent, about 3 minutes. Add 2 1/4 c water, sugar, and 1 tsp salt and bring to boil. Stir in lentils, reduce heat to low, cover, and cook until all liquid is absorbed, ~12 min. Off heat, remove lid, fold dish towel in half, and place over pot; replace lid. Let stand for 10 min. Fluff rice and lentils with fork and stir in cilantro and half of crispy onions. Transfer to serving platter, top with remaining crispy onions, and serve, passing yogurt sauce separately.


Notes: Do not substitute smaller French lentils for the green or brown lentils.
For the onions fry in just 1 1/2 c of oil. The trick: removing a good bit of the onions’ water before frying by tossing them with salt, microwaving them for 5 minutes, and drying them thoroughly.
