Mushroom Masala Curry
  --Swashti Shreekanth

200-230 g sliced mushrooms
1 large onion, diced
1 c diced tomato (2 large)
1/2" ginger, chopped
2-3 cloves garlic, chopped
12 cashews or almonds
2 tbsp oil or butter
3/4 - 1 tsp garam masala
1/2 - 3/4 tsp kashmiri red chili powder
3/4 - 1 tsp coriander powder (optional)
1/4 tsp salt (to taste)
1/4 tsp kasuri methi (optional) (dried fenugreek leaves)
1 small bay leaf or 10 curry leaves (optional)
2 green cardamom pods (optional)
1" cinnamon stick (optional)
2 tbsp chopped cilantro (optional)
2-3 tbsp cream (optional)
water

Bring 2 c water to a boil and add the onions. Boil until translucent ~5-6 min; drain and cool. Add onions, tomatoes, ginger, garlic, cashews to a blender jar. Blend until it becomes a smooth paste; set aside. Heat oil in a pan. When it becomes hot, if using, add bay leaf, cardamom, and cinnamon. Pour in the paste and cook covered until the mixture thickens, stirring frequently. Add chili powder, coriander powder, and garam masala. Saute on low heat until the mixture becomes fragrant and leaves the sides of the pan. Add mushrooms and salt and saute for 2-3 min until the flavor of the mushrooms comes out. Add 1/2 - 3/4 c water as needed for consistency (thick gravy). Cook until mushrooms are tender, not soggy. If it's too thick, can add hot water. Sprinkle kasuri methi, cover and turn off stove. If using cream and cilantro, add before covering. 



Notes: if you prefer not to grind the onions, chop and saute until golden, then add paste to the pan. If using almonds, soak in hot water for 30 min & remove the skins prior to putting in blender.


Variant:

200g sliced mushrooms (white button or cremini)
1 c bell pepper, cubed
3/4 c chopped onion
3/4 c finely chopped tomatoes (or puree)
1 sprig curry leaf or bay leaf
1 green chili, split
1/2 tsp cumin seeds
1 tsp ginger garlic paste
3/4 tsp red chili powder, adjust to taste
3/4 tsp garam masala, adjust to taste
1 tsp kasuri methi, adjust to taste
2 tbsp oil
salt to taste
1/8 tsp tumeric
2 tbsp roasted peanuts
1 tbsp roasted sesame seeds (optional)
1 tbsp desicated coconut (optional)

On medium heat, dry roast peanuts until deep golden and aromatic; lower temp to low and add sesame seeds. Stir until they begin to sputter. Turn off heat and add coconut; saute for some time. Cool and using a spice grinder or mortar and pestle, turn into powder. Pour 1 tbsp oil into hot pan and add mushrooms and saute on high for 2-4 min until a nice aroma comes out. Remove to a plate and set aside. Add peppers to the now empty pan and saute for 2-3 min until partially cooked, yet still crunchy. Remove and set aside. Pour 1 tbsp oil in same pan, add cumin and curry leaf. When the seeds sputter, add onion and split green chili. Saute until onions turn light golden brown, then add garlic ginger paste. Saute until the raw smell goes away. Add tomatoes, salt, and tumeric. Saute until tomatoes break down and turn mushy, the raw tomato smell should go away. Add the nut powder and chili powder; saute for 1 min. Then pour 1 1/2 - 1 1/4 c water and mix well. Let the curry simmer until it turns thick. Add mushrooms and bell peppers. Add kasuri methi and garam masala. Let the mushrooms cook until tender, not soggy. Turn off heat and cover the pan. Stir well and taste test and adjust seasoning as desired. Cool down curry a bit and squeeze some lemon juice just before serving. Garnish with cilantro.






