Mushroom Marsala Pasta Bake
  --Deb Perelman
  
1/2 lb (8 oz or 225 g) pasta of you choice, such as a ziti or twisty shape
1 tbsp (15 ml) olive oil
3/4 lb (340 g) fresh mushroom, sliced
1 small-to-medium yellow onion, halved and sliced thin
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
1/4 c (60 ml) dry marsala wine
3 tbsp (45 g) unsalted butter
3 tbsp (25 g) ap flour
1 1/2 c (355 ml) stock or broth (chicken, vegetable or mushroom)
1/2 c (50 g) finely grated parmesan cheese
4 oz (115 g) mozzarella, cut into small cubes
3 tbsp chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley

Bring a pot of well-salted water to a boil. Add pasta and cook until al dente, ~1-2 minutes before perfect doneness. Drain and set aside. Heat oven to 400F. Reheat your empty pasta pot over high heat. Add oil and once it is hot, add mushrooms and cook until they’ve begun to brown and glisten, but have not yet released their liquid. Reduce heat to medium-high, add onions, salt and pepper and saute together until the liquid the mushrooms give off is evaporated. Add Marsala and cook mixture, stirring, until it has almost or fully evaporated (depending on your preference). Add butter, stir until melted. Add flour, and stir until all has been dampened and absorbed. Add stock, a very small splash at a time, stirring the whole time with a spoon. Make sure each splash has been fully mixed into the butter/flour/mushroom mixture, scraping from the bottom of the pan and all around, before adding the next splash. Repeat until all stock has been added. Let mixture simmer together for 2 min, stirring frequently; the sauce will thicken. Remove pan from heat. If you’re cooking in an ovensafe dish, add cooked pasta and stir until combined. (If you’re not cooking in an ovensafe dish, transfer this mixture to a 2-quart baking dish.) Stir in half the parmesan, all of the mozzarella and 2 tbsp of the parsley until evenly mixed. Sprinkle the top with remaining parmesan. Bake for 25-30 min, until edges of pasta are golden brown and irresistible. Sprinkle with reserved parsley and serve hot. Reheat as needed.


Notes: In place of Marsala, rehydrate a few dried porcinis in 1/4 c boiling water. Remove them, chop them find and add them to the other mushrooms for a louder mushroom flavor. Then, strain the porcini soaking liquid to remove any sand/grit, add 1 tsp sherry or red wine vinegar and use this instead of the Marsala for a little extra flavor oomph. Can double recipe and bake in 9x13" baking dish
