Mushroom Burger with Pickled Maitake Aioli

Aioli:
8 oz maitake mushrooms, cut into small pieces
1 1/4 c white vinegar
1/3 c sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt + more to taste
1 egg yolk
1 tbsp fresh lemon juice
1 c canola oil
3 tbsp heavy cream
1/4 tsp minced garlic

Place the mushrooms in a medium bowl. In a small saucepan, combine the vinegar and sugar, and place over high heat. Bring to a boil, then pour over the mushrooms. Add a pinch of salt and let cool to room temp. In a medium bowl, combine the yolk and lemon juice. Whisking vigorously, gradually add the canola oil, drop by drop, until it begins to emulsify. Stir in the cream and garlic. Taste and adjust the seasoning with salt. Strain the mushrooms, dicarding the liquid. Finely chop them and fold them into the mayonnaise. Makes ~2 c. Can be made up to 2 days in advance.

Burger:
1/4 c quick cooking oats
3 tbsp heavy cream
5 tbsp olive oil, divided
12 oz cremini mushrooms, roughly chopped
kosher salt to taste
3 tbsp bread crumbs
1/2 medium yellow onion, roughly chopped
1 tbsp chopped garlic
1 c cooked farro
1 large egg
1/4 c finely grated parmesan cheese
3 tbsp roughly chopped flat-leaf parsley
1 tbsp roughly chopped fresh oregano
freshly ground black pepper to taste
2 oz gruyere, thinly sliced
4 brioche buns, split in half and toasted
canola oil for frying
1 medium yellow onion cut into 1/4" rings
1/2 c ap flour
kosher salt to taste

In a small bowl, combine the oats and cream, and let sit until the oats are fully soaked, 45 min. Meanwhile, in a large skillet, heat 2 tbsp of the  olive oil over medium high heat. Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, until they are brown and tender, 8-10 min. Season with salt and transfer to a medium bowl. Stir in the bread crumbs and set aside. Wipe the skillet clean and place it over medium high heat. Heat 1 tbsp of the olive oil and add the onion. Season with salt and cook until soft and golden, 4-5 min. Remove from the heat and transfer to the mushroom mixture along with the soaked oats. In a food processor, add the mixture and pulse to roughly chop. Add the cooked farro and pulse until coarsely chopped. Add the egg, parmesan, and herbs, and pulse until fairly smooth. The mixture should have some texture and be slightly sticky. Transfer to a large bowl and taste, adjusting the seasoning with salt and pepper. Form the mixture into 4-4" patties. Place them on a plate and chill in the refrigerator uncovered for at least 1 hr. Can be made up to 1 day in advance. 
In a large wide saucepan, add enough oil to reach adepth of 1/2"; place the pan over medium high heat. In a medium bowl, toss the onions (sliced) with the flour to coat. Working in 2 batches, fry the onions until dark brown and crispy, 10-12 min. Transfer rings to a paper towl lined plate and season with salt while they're still hot. 
In a large skillet, heat the remaining 2 tbps of olive oil over medium high heat. Add the patties and cook until deep brown and crisp around hte edges, ~ 4min per side. Top each patty with cheese, cover and cook until the cheese has melted, ~ 1min.

