Mushroom Lasagna
  --Adapted from Ina Garten by Deb Perelman
  
Salt
Olive oil
3/4 lb (12 oz or 240 g) dried lasagna noodles
1 large clove garlic, minced
4 c (950 ml) whole milk
3/4 c (12 tbsp, 6 oz or 170 g) unsalted butter, divided
1/2 c (65 g) ap flour
1 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 tsp ground nutmeg (I use less, because this seems like a lot)
1 1/2 lb (680 g) cremini or portobello mushrooms, sliced
1 c (85 g or 3 oz) freshly grated parmesan

Preheat oven to 375F. Bring a large, wide (if you use a wide one, you can save a dish later and saute your mushrooms in the bottom of it) pot of water to boil with salt and a splash of oil, that will help keep your noodles from sticking together as they drain. Add the lasagna noodles and cook for 10 min. Drain and set aside. Bring the milk and garlic to simmer in a saucepan, or heat it in your microwave, and set it aside. Melt 1/2 c (8 tbsp or 115 g) butter in a large saucepan. If your name is Deb, you will probably brown this butter, too. Add the flour and cook for one minute over low heat, stirring constantly with a whisk or wooden spoon. Pour in the hot milk, a little at a time at first and stirring until combined. Once you’ve added half of it, you can add the second half all at once, along with 2 tsp kosher salt, the pepper, and nutmeg. Cook over medium-low heat, stirring or whisking frequently, for 3-5 min, or until thick. Set aside. Discard portobello mushroom stems and/or trim the ends of the cremini stems. Slice mushrooms 1/4" thick. Heat 2 tbsp olive oil and 2 tbsp butter over medium in the bottom of the large, wide pot you used to cook the noodles earlier, or in a large sauté pan. Cook half the mushrooms with a couple pinches of salt for ~5 min, or until they are tender and release some of their juices, tossing to make sure they cook evenly. Repeat with additional oil and butter, and remaining mushrooms. Spread some of the sauce in the bottom of an 8x12 or 9x13 baking dish. (Ina recommends the former, I only had the latter; if you’d like to freeze or give this dish as a gift, remember to use a foil pan). Arrange a layer of noodles on top*, then more sauce (about 1/4 of what remains), 1/3 of the mushrooms and 1/4 c grated parmesan. Repeat 2 more times then top with a final layer of noodles, your remaning sauce and last 1/4 c of parmesan. Bake for 45 min, or until top is browned and the sauce is bubbly. Let sit at room temperature for 15 min before serving. To freeze for future use, allow it to cool completely and wrap two to three times in plastic wrap before freezing. 


Notes:  add 1/2 c chopped shallots to the pan before the mushrooms, cooking them until they soften a little, then adding the mushrooms. A splash of wine or marsala would be great in the mushrooms, then cooked off at the end. Can increase everything in this recipe by 1/3, i.e. using a full pound of noodles and a full two pounds of mushrooms, and make a more towering lasagna, BUT make sure you have a deep pan (maybe more than 3"). 
