Mushroom and Leek Galette with Gorgonzola
  --America's Test Kitchen

Dough:
1 1/4 c (6 1/4 oz) ap flour
1/2 c (2 3/4 oz) whole wheat flour
1 tbsp sugar
3/4 tsp salt
10 tbsp unsalted butter cut into 1/2" pieces and chilled
7 tbsp ice water
1 tsp white vinegar

Process flours, sugar, and salt in food processor until combined, 2-3 pulses. Add butter and pulse until it forms pea sized pieces, ~10 pulses. Transfer mixture to medium bowl. Sprinkle water and vinegarover mixture. With rubber spatula, use folding motion to mix until loose, shaggy mass forms with some dry flour remaining (do not overwork). Transfer mixture to venter of large sheet of plastic wrap, gently into rough 4" square, and wrap tightly. Refrigerate for at least 45 min. Transfer dough to lightly floured work surface. Roll into 11x8" rectangle with short side parallel to edge of work surface. Using bench scraper, bring bottom third of dough up, then fold upper third over it, folding like business letter into 8x4" rectangle. Turn dough 90 degrees counterclockwise. Roll out dough again into 11x8" rectangle and fold into thirds again. Turn dough 90 degrees counterclockwise and repeat rolling and folding into thirds. After last fold, fold dough in half to create 4" square. Press top of dough gently to seal. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate for at least 45 min or up to 2 days.

Filling:
1 1/4 lbs shiitake mushrooms, stemmed and sliced thin
5 tsp olive oil
1 lb leeks, white andlight green parts only, sliced 1/2" thick and washed thoroughly (3 c)
1 tsp minced fresh thyme
2 tbsp creme fraiche
1 tbsp dijon mustard
salt and pepper
3 oz gorgonzola cheese, crumbled (3/4 c)
1 large egg, lightly beaten
kosher salt
2 tbsp minced fresh parsley

Cover mushrooms in a bowl and microwave until just tender, 3-5 min. Transfer to colander to drain and return to bowl. Meanwhile, heat 1 tbsp oil in 12" skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Add leeks and thyme, cover, and cook, stirring occasionally, until leeks are tender and beginning to brown, 5-7 min. Transfer to bowl with mushrooms. Stir in creme fraiche and mustard. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Set aside. Adjust oven rack to lower middle position, place pizza stone on oven rack and heat oven to 400F. Remove dough from refrigerator and let stand at room temp for 15-20 min. Roll out on generously floured (up to 1/4c) work surface to 14" circle ~1/8" thick; trim edges as needed to form rough circle. Transfer dough to parchment paper lined rimmed baking sheet. With tip of paring knife, cut 5x1/4" circles in dough, one in center, 4 evenly spaced midway from center to edge. Brush top of dough with 1 tsp oil. Spread half of filling over dough, leaving 2" border around edge. Sprinkle with half of gorgonzola, cover with remaining filling, and top with remaining gorgonzola. Drizzle remaining 1 tsp oil over filling. Grasp 1 edge of dough and fold up out 2" over filling. Repeat around circumferance of tart, overlapping dough every 2-3"; gently pinch pleated dough to secure but do not press dough into filling. Brush dough with egg and sprinkle evenly with kosher salt. Lower oven temp to 375F. Bake until crust is deep golden brown and filling is beginning to brown, 35-45 min. Cool tart on baking sheet on wire rack for 10 min. Using offset or wide spatula, loosen tart from parchment onto cutting board. Sprinkle with parsley, cut into wedges, and serve.
