Nasi Goreng
  --America's Test Kitchen

5 green or red thai chiles, stemmed
7 large shallots, peeled
4 large garlic cloves, peeled
2 tbsp dark brown sugar
2 tbsp light or mild molasses
2 tbsp shoyu
2 tbsp fish sauce
salt
4 large eggs
1/2 c vegetable oil
6 c leftover rice
12 oz extra large shrimp (21-25 per lb), peeled, deveined, tails removed, and cut crosswise into thirds
4 large scallions, sliced thin
2 limes, cut into wedges

Pulse chiles, 4 shallots, and garlic in food processor until coarse paste is formed, ~15x1 s pulses, scraping down the sides as necessary. Transfer mixture to small bowl and set aside. In second small bowl, stir together sugar, molasses, shoyu, fish sauce, and 1 1/4 tsp salt. Whisk eggs and 1/4 tsp salt in medium bowl. Thinly slice remaining 3 shallots and place in 12" nonstick skillet with oil. Fry over medium heat, stirring constantly, until shallots are golden and crisp, 6-10 min. Using slotted spoon, transfer shallots to paper towel lined plate and season with salt to taste. Pour off oil and reserve. Wipe out skillet with paper towel. Heat 1 tsp reserved oil in skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Add half of eggs to skillet, gently tilting pan to evenly coat bottom. Cover and cook until bottom of omelet is spotty golden brown and top is just set, ~1 1/2 min. Slide omelet onto cutting board and gently roll up into tight log. Using sharp knife, cut lg crosswise into 1" segments (leaving rolled). Repeate with remaining egg. Remove rice from refrigerator and break up any large clumps with fingers. Heat 3 tbsp reserved oil in skillet over medium heat until just shimmering. Add chile mixture and cook until mixture turns golden, 3-5 min. Add shrimp, increase heat to medium high, and cook, stirring constantly, until exterior of shrim is just opaque, ~2 min. Push shrimp to sides of skillet to clear center; stir molasses mixture to recombine and pour into center of skillet. When it bubbles, add rice and cook, stirring and folding constantly, until shrimp are cooked, rice is heated through, and mixture is evenly coated, ~ 3 min. Stir in scallions, remove from heat, and transfer to serving platter. Garnish with egg, fried shallots, and lime wedges; serve immediately.


Notes: Can sub 2 serranos for thai chiles. Can add sliced cucumber and tomato wedges for garnish.
