Natchitoches Meat Pies
  --Cook's Country

Filling:
5 tsp vegetable oil
3/4 lb 85% lean ground beef
3/4 lb ground pork
salt and pepper
1 onion, chopped fine
1 green bell pepper, stemmed, seeded, and minced
6 scallions, white parts minced, green parts sliced thin
3 garlic cloves, minced
1/4 tsp cayenne
2 tbsp ap flour
1 c chicken broth

Heat 2 tsp oil in 12" skillet over medium high heat until just smoking. Add beef, pork, 1 tsp salt, and 1/2 tsp pepper and cook, breaking up pieces with spoon, until no longer pink, 8-10 min. Transfer meat to bowl. Add remaining 1 tbsp oil to now empty skillet and heat over medium high heat until shimmering. Add onion, bell pepper, scallion whites, 1/2 tsp salt, and 1/2 tsp pepper and cook until vegetables are just starting to brown, 3-5 min. Stir in garlic and cayenne and cook until fragrant, ~30 s. Return meat and any accumulated juices to skillet with vegetables. Sprinkle flour over meat and cook, stirring constantly, until evenly coated, ~1 min. Add broth, bring to boil, and cook until slightly thickened, ~3 min. Transfer filling to bowl and stir in scallion greens. Refrigerate until completely cool, ~1 hr. Can make ahead and refrigerate filling up to 24 hrs.

Dough:
4 c (20 oz) ap flour
2 tsp salt
1 tsp baking powder
8 tbsp shortening cut into 1/2" pieces
1 c chicken broth
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 qt oil for frying

Process flour, salt, and baking powder in food processor until combined, ~3 s. Add shortening and pulse until mixture resembles coarse cornmeal, 6-8 pulses. Add broth and eggs and pulse until dough just comes together, ~5 pulses. Transfer dough to lightly floured surface and knead until dough forms smooth ball, ~ 20s. Divide dough into 16 equal pieces. Dough can be covered and refrigerated for up to 24 hrs. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Working with 1 piece of dough at a time, roll into 6" circle on lightly floured surface. Place 1/4 c filling in center of dough. Brush edges of dough with water and fold dough over. Press to seal, trim any ragged edges, and crimp with tines of fork. Transfer to prepared sheet. Filled pies can be covered and refrigerated for up to 24 hrs. Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat to 200F. Set wire rack in another rimmed baking sheet. Add 1 qt oil to large dutch oven until it measures ~3/4" deep and heat over medium high heat to 350F. Pace 4 pies in oil and fry until golden brown ~3-5 min per side, using slotted spatula or spider to flip. Adjust burner if necessary, to maintain oil temp between 325-450F. Transfer pies to prepared wire rack and place in oven to keep warm. Return oil to 350F and repeat with remaining pies. Serve.
