New York Bagels
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
1 c + 2 tbsp (9 oz) ice water
2 tbsp malt syrup
2 2/3 c (14 2/3 oz) bread flour
4 tsp vital wheat gluten
2 tsp instant or rapid rise yeast
2 tsp salt
1/4 c (1 1/4 oz) cornmeal
1/4 c (1 3/4 oz) sugar
1 tbsp baking soda

Stir ice water and malt syrup together in 2 c liquid measuring cup until malt syrup has fully dissolved. Process flour, wheat gluten, and yeast in food processor until combined, ~2 s. With processor running, slowly add water mixture; process until dough is just combined and no dry flour remains, ~20 s. Let dough stand for 10 min. Add salt to dough and process, stopping processor and redistributing dough as needed, until dough forms shaggy mass that clears sides of workbowl (dough may not form one single mass), 45-90 s. Transfer dough to unfloured counter and knead until smooth, ~1 min. Divide dough into 8 equal pieces (3 1/2 oz each) and cover loosely with plastic wrap. Working with 1 piece of dough at a time and keeping remaining pieces covered, form dough pieces into smooth, taut rounds. To round, set piece of dough on unfloured counter. Loosely cup your hand around dough and, without applying pressure to dough, move your hand in small circular motions. Tackiness of dough against counter and circular motion should work dough into smooth, even ball. Let dough balls rest on counter, covered, for 15 min. Sprinkle rimmed baking sheet with cornmeal. Working with 1 ball at a time and keeping remaining pieces covered, coat balls with flour and then, using your hands and a rolling pin, pat and roll dough balls into 5" rounds. Starting with edge of dough farthest from you, roll into tight cylinder. Starting at center of cylinder and working toward ends, gently and evenly roll and stretch dough into 8-9" long rope. Do not taper ends. Rolling ends of dough under your hands in opposite directions, twist rope to form tight spiral. Without unrolling spiral, wrap rope around your fingers, overlapping ends of dough by ~2" under your palm, to create ring shape. Pinch ends of dough gently together. With overlap under your palm, press and roll seam using circular motion on counter to fully seal. Transfer rings to prepared sheet and cover loosely with plastic, leaving at least 1" between bagels. Let bagels stand at room temp for 1 hr. Cover sheet tightly with plastic and refrigerate for 16-24 hrs. One hour before baking, adjust oven rack to upper middle position, place baking stone on rack, and heat oven to 450F. Bring 4 qt water, sugar, and baking soda to boil in large dutch oven. Set wire rack in rimmed baking sheet and spray rack with oil. Transfer 4 bagels to boiling water and cook for 20 s. Using wire skimmer or slotted spoon, flip bagels over and cook 20 s longer. Using skimmer or slotted spoon, transfer bagels to prepared wire rack, with cornmeal side facing down. Repeat with remaining 4 bagels. Place sheet with bagels on prepared baking stone and pour 1/2 c boiling water into bottom of sheet. Bake until tops of bagels are beginning to brown, 10-12 min. Using metal spatula, flip bagels and continue to bake until golden brown, 10-12 min. Remov sheet from oven and let bagels cool on wire rack for at least 15 min. Serve warm or at room temp.


Notes: Can sub 4 tsp of molasses for malt syrup. Best if eaten within a day of baking, can transfer to freezer bag and freeze for up to 1 month. 
