One Pan Chicken and Orzo (Hawker inspired)
  --Lily Morello

2 lbs bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs, trimmed of excess fat
3 tsp shoyu, divided
1/4 tsp white pepper
2 tsp olive oil
3 tbsp butter, divided
1 1/2 c chopped onion (~1 medium onion)
2 tsp ginger, minced
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 sticks cinnamon
1 1/2 c dry orzo pasta
2 tbsp shao xing wine
2 c low sodium chicken stock
1 1/2 tsp chicken powder
2 Persian cucumbers, sliced
1 stalk scallions, thinly sliced
cilantro, for garnish
2 bird’s eye chilies, sliced (optional)
Ginger Scallion Garlic Oil, for serving

Trim the chicken thighs of excess skin and fat. Pat the thighs dry on both sides with paper towels. Combine with 2 tsp shoyu and the white pepper. Mix until the chicken thighs are evenly coated and allow to marinade for 10 min. Heat olive oil and melt 1 tbsp butter on medium high heat in a large cast iron pan (large enough to fit all of the chicken pieces) to coat the bottom of the pan. When the oil is hot, place thighs skin-side down in the pan. Pour over any excess marinade. Let cook for 5 min or until the chicken has browned on one side. Then turn the chicken pieces over and cook for another 4 min until lightly browned. Remove the chicken from the pan, set aside. Add the remaining butter to the pan and allow to melt. Add onion and ginger and fry for 2-3 min, or until fragrant and onions are slightly translucent. Add garlic and cinnamon sticks. Cook until the garlic becomes golden on the edges, ~1 min more. Add orzo pasta to the pan. Stir to combine and let the pasta brown. Once the orzo starts to brown, add chicken powder, remaining shoyu, and shao xing wine. Add back chicken, pour stock over orzo: Place the chicken pieces skin-side up on top of the orzo. Pour the stock over the orzo. Increase heat to medium high and let the stock in the pan come to a full boil. Lower the heat to the lowest heat you need to maintain a bare simmer. Cover and let cook until the orzo has completely absorbed the liquid and the chicken is cooked through, ~10-12 min. Remove from heat and let sit for 5 min before serving. Divide chicken and orzo among 4 plates. Add cucumber slices on the side and garnish each with scallions, cilantro, and bird’s eye chilies (if using). Serve with a batch of Ginger Scallion Garlic Oil in a separate jar for everyone to add to taste.


