Caramelized Onion Dip

1/4 c + 2 tbsp canola oil
1 1/2 c finely diced onions
4 cloves garlic, minced
4 c packed baby spinach
1/2 c thinly sliced shallots (1 large shallot)
salt and pepper to taste
2 c whole fat greek yogurt
1 c (4oz) crumbled feta
3 tbsp finely chopped fresh oregano, divided
1 tsp fresh lemon juice
1/3 c walnuts, toasted and crushed
evoo for drizzling

In a large skillet over medium heat, warm 1/4 c of the canola oil. When the oil is hot, add the onions. Season with salt and pepper and cook, stirring constantly, until the onions are light golden brown and very soft, 20-25 min. Add the garlic and spinach and cook until the spinach has wilted and all of the liquid has evaporated, 8-10 min. Meanwhile, in a small nonstick skillet over medium low heat, add the remaining 2 tbsp oil. Add the shallots and cook until they are golden brown and crisp, 10-12 min. Remove using a slotted spoon and transfer to a paper towel lined plate. Season with salt and set aside. In a food processor, combine the yogurt and feta and pulse until smooth. Transfer to a medium bowl. Stir in the onion mixture, 2 tbsp of the oregano and the lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper. If the dip looks too thick, stir in a tbsp of water (as needed). To serve, put in a bowl and top with the remaining oregano, walnuts, and crispy shallots. Drizzle with olive oil and serve with crackers.


Lazy Bear version

Aioli:
1 tsp lemon juice
1 tsp dijon mustard
1 tsp pickle juice
1 egg yolk
kosher salt to taste
1/2 c peanut oil

In a medium bowl, whisk together everything but the oil. Slowly whisk in the oil until emulsified, then season again with salt and set aside.

Dip:
1/2 tbsp peanut oil
1 small shallot, thinly sliced
1/2 yellow onion, thinly sliced
3 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
2 scallions, thinly sliced
1/2 red onion, thinly sliced
3 c creme fraiche
2 tbsp lemon juice
2 tsp dried porcini mushroom powder
1 1/2 tsp smoked sea salt
1 tsp lemon zest
aoili
1/2 c thinly sliced chives
kosher salt to taste

Preheat oven to 300F. In a medium skillet, heat the oil over medium. Cook the shallot and onion until softened and caramelized, 15-17 min. Transfer to a baking sheet with the garlic, scallions, and red onion, spreading out in an even layer. Bake, stirring every 15 min, until completely dehydrated, 45-55 min. Let cool completely, then transfer to a spice grinder or mini food processor, and grind into a fine powder. In a large bowl, stir together the creme fraiche, drion onion powder, lemon juice, porcini powder, smoked sea salt, and lemon zest. Let sit for 1 hr to infuse, then whip with a handheld mixer to medium stiff peaks. Fold in the aioli and chives, then season with salt and serve.
