Paella Arancini

1/2 link andouille sausage, casing removed
1 small onion, cut into 1/2" dice
1/3 finely diced orange bell pepper
1/3 finely diced red bell pepper
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tsp tomato paste
1/2 tsp sweet spanish paprika
1/4 tsp saffron
1 c bomba or arborio rice
1/4 c white wine
4 c chicken stock, warmed
6 large shell-on shrimp, rinsed and deveined
6 little neck clams, rinsed and scrubbed
kosher salt
freshly ground black pepper
6 c canola oil
3/4 c ap flour
3/4 c panko breadcrumbs
2 eggs

In a medium saute pan over medium heat, cooke the sausage until browned, ~2 min. Remove the cooked sausage from the pan with a slotted spoon and let drain on a paper towel lined plate. Chop the sausge into a 1/4" dice. Add the onion, bell peppers, and garlic to the same pan and cook until they being to soften, about 5 min. Add the tomato paste, paprika, and saffron and cook, stirring continuously, until the tomato paste has caramelized, ~ 2min. Stir in the rice and mix thoroughly, then add the white wine and cook until completely absorbed, about 1 min. Reduce the heat to low and add the chicken stock. Gently move the rice mixture with a spatula to evenly distribute the stock and cook, uncovered, for 10 min. Place the cooked sausage, shrimp, and clams evenly over the rice mixture and continue to simmer over low heat until the seafood has been cooked through, about 20-25 min. Remove the cooked seafood and let cool in the refrigerator. Continue to cook the rice over low heat until all of the stock has been absorbed and the rice is tender, ~5 min more. Season to taste with salt and pepper, then spread over a parchment lined tray and refrigerate until cool. Once the seafood is cool enough to handle, remove the shells from the shrimp and clams and discard. Roughly chop the clams and shrimp and fold into the cooled rice mixture. With a 1" ice cream scoop, form the chilled rice mixture into balls and transfer to a parchment lined baking sheet. In a medium saucepan, heat the oil to 350F. Add the flour to a shallow baking dish or cake pan. Put the panko breadcrumbs in another shallow baking dish. In a third shallow disk, whisk together the eggs with 1/4 c of water until well combined. Dip each ball in the flour, rolling to coat, then dip into the beaten egg, allowing the excess egg to drip off. Finally, roll the balls in the breadcrumbs, shaking to remove any excess. Return the dredged balls to the parchment lined sheet. Add arancini to the hot oil in small batches and fry, turning occasionally, until golden brown on all sides, 4-5 min. Drain on paper towels and season with salt. 
