Panela Cheese Dumplings with Cilantro Pesto

Dumplings:
14oz panela cheese
1/4 c whole milk
4oz grated parmesan
3/4 c "oo" flour or ap flour + more for dusting
1/2 tsp sea salt
1/4 tsp black pepper
1/2 tsp ground cumin
2 egg yolks

Place the panela cheese and milk in a food processor and process until fairly smooth. Transfer to a large mixing bowl and mix in the dry ingredients and egg yolks. Transfer the dough to a floured work surface and knead for 5 min, adding small amounts of flour as necessary. Be careful not to overdo the flour, or dumplings will be heavy. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 min. Divide the dough into 6 pieces. On a lightly floured work surface, roll the dough using both hands into ropes, about 1/2" in diameter. Dust with flour as necessary, bring careful not to overdo it. Cut dumplings in about 1.5" segments. If desired, roll each dumpling over the back of the tines of a fork to make ridges. Lay the dumplings out in a single layer on a flour dusted baking pan. Dumplings can be frozen at this point or refrigerated for same day use.

Pesto:
1 bunch cilantro leaves
1-2 medium jalapenos
1/4 c chopped onion
1/4 c whole walnut pieces, lightly toasted
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1/4 c grated parmesan cheese
2 tsp sea salt
2 tsp lime juice
3/4 c evoo

Roast the jalapenos on a grill or directly on your gas stove until the skin is well charred all around. Discard the stems and place the jalapenos and remaining ingredients (except the oil) in a food processor. Process the ingredients and gradually add the oil in a stream to emulsify.


vegetable oil for sauteing
butter for sauteing
2 c peeled and diced winter squash (i.e. delicata or butternut)
6oz panela cheese, crumbled
1/4 c roasted and salted pumpkin seeds

Bring 6-8 quarts of water to a boil in a large pot. Set a water bath with a little ice. Have a skimmer on hand to transfer the dumplings. Add the dumplings to the boiling water, As soon as they being to float, skim them out and transfer to ice bath. Once all are done, transfer from ice bath to clean container. Heat the pesto over low heat and set aside. Heat a large non-stick pan over medium heat with a couple of tbsp of oil. Add the diced squash and saute for 3-5 min, seasoning with salt to taste, until the squash is somewhat tender. Reserve the squash. Wipe the pan with a paper towl and return to medium heat. Add a couple more tbsp of oil to the pan and cook the dumplings in batches. Add a tbsp of butter to the pan and brown the dumplings on both sides. Once all dumplings are done, return them and the squash to the pan to warm everything up. Ladle a good amount of the pesto into a large serving platter or bowl. Place the cooked dumplings and squash on top of the pesto and top the dish with crumbled panela cheese and roasted pepitas.
