Fresh Pappardelle with Roasted Tomato Sauce

Dough:
3 c + 2 tbsp ap flour + more for dusting
6 tbsp water
2 tbsp olive oil
1/2 tsp kosher salt
3 eggs

In a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine all of the dough ingredients. Mix on medium speed until a dough begins to form, then transfer to a clean work surface. Knead the dough until fully comes together, then wrap in plastic wrap and rest in the refrigerator for 1 hr.

Sauce:
1/2 c olive oil, divided
1 medium red onion, sliced into 1/2" thick rings
2 garlic cloves, roughly chopped
1 tsp dried oregano
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
8 (2lbs) ripe tomatoes, cores removed and flesh halved

Preheat oven to 400F. Spread 2 tbsp of the oil onto a baking sheet. Lay the sliced onions on the sheet, then top with the garlic, oregano, salt and pepper. Lay the tomatoes over the onions, face side down. Pour the remaining oil over the top and season with salt and pepper. Transfer to the oven and cook until the vegetables are tender and lightly golden, 20 min. Remove from the oven and let cool. When cool enough to handle, remove the skins from the tomatoes and discard, then transfer the contents of the tray to the bowl of a food processor. Pulse the mixture until a chunky sauce comes together, then season with salt and pepper. Transfer to a large skillet and set aside. On a lightly floured work surface, roll the pasta dough into a rectangle, so it is thin and narrow enough to fid through the diest setting on your pasta roller. Sprinkle the dough with more ap flour and begin to roll out. Gradually make the roller thinner until the pasta sheets are 1/8" thick. Using a knife, cut the dough into 10x1" strips of pasta. Bring a large pot of water to boil, then season with salt. Cook the pasta until al dente, 3-4 min. Drain, reserving 1/4 c water. Bring the large skillet of sauce to a light simmer, then add the drained pasta and reserved liquid. Toss until incorporated, then season with salt and pepper. Garnish with fresh basil leaves and freshly grated parmesan cheese.
