Pastelon
  --Cook's Illustratred

3/4 c fresh cilantro leaves and stems
1 small Cubanelle pepper, stemmed, seeded, and chopped coarse
1/2 onion, quartered
1/4 c fresh culantro, chopped coarse
2 tbsp vegetable oil
3 garlic cloves, peeled
3–3 lb very ripe plantains, peeled
3/4 c vegetable oil for frying
1/2 tsp plus pinch table salt, divided
1 pound 90 percent lean ground beef
2 1/2 tsp sazón
2 tsp distilled white vinegar
8 oz can tomato sauce
2 tbsp pitted alcaparrado
2 large eggs
4 oz Monterey Jack cheese, shredded (1 c)

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 400 F. Pulse cilantro, Cubanelle, onion, culantro, 2 tbsp oil, and garlic in food processor until coarsely chopped, 12-14 pulses. Line rimmed baking sheet with double layer of paper towels. Halve 1 plantain crosswise; cut each half lengthwise into thirds. Repeat with remaining plantains. Heat 3/4 c oil in 12" nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Carefully lay 1/3 of plantain pieces in skillet and fry until deep golden brown on 1 side, 3-4 min. Using 2 spatulas, flip and fry on second side until deep golden brown, 2-3 min. Transfer plantains to prepared sheet. Repeat with remaining plantains in 2 batches. Discard excess oil, leaving any browned bits in skillet. Sprinkle 1/2 tsp salt over plantains. Add beef to now-empty skillet and cook over medium-high heat, breaking up meat with wooden spoon, until beef is no longer pink and begins to brown. Sprinkle sazón over meat and cook until aromatic, ~1 min. Drizzle vinegar over meat and stir to combine. Transfer meat to bowl. Transfer cilantro mixture to now-empty skillet. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring frequently, until onion softens, 3-4 min. Add tomato sauce and continue to cook until mixture thickens and fond begins to form on edges and bottom of skillet, 2-4 min longer. Stir in beef and alcaparrado and continue to cook until sauce is thickened and coats meat, 2-3 min longer. Off heat, season with salt and pepper to taste. Arrange half of plantain pieces in lightly greased 13x9" baking dish (plantains will not cover bottom of dish completely). Whisk eggs with remaining pinch salt and pour evenly over plantains. Spread beef over plantains. Arrange remaining plantains in single layer over beef. Sprinkle evenly with Monterey Jack. Bake until cheese is melted and beginning to brown, 20-25 min. Transfer to wire rack; let cool for 5 min before serving.


Notes: If culantro is unavailable, increase the cilantro to 1 c. You can substitute 1 small green bell pepper for the Cubanelle, if desired. Buy the largest plantains you can find; they should be almost completely black and yield to firm pressure, like a ripe avocado. The seasoning mix sazón can be found in the international section of your supermarket; we like versions that include cilantro and achiote for this dish, but any will work. Alcaparrado, a mixture of pitted manzanilla olives, capers, and pimento strips, can be found there, too. If you can't find it, substitute pimento-stuffed manzanilla olives. Serve the pastelón with rice and beans.
