Crispy Baked Peanut Tofu Bowl
  --Claire Cary

Tofu:
1 block extra firm tofu
1 tbsp low sodium tamari or soy sauce
1 tsp toasted sesame oil
1 tsp maple syrup or honey
2 tbsp corn starch
2 tbsp gluten free plain breadcrumbs or regular
1/2 c peanut sauce 

Remove the tofu from the package and drain out the excess liquid. If you’re using extra firm tofu, you shouldn’t need to press it, but you are more than welcome to. Combine tamari, sesame oil, and syrup in a bowl, set aside. Chop the tofu into small cubes, ~1/2 - 1". Add to a bowl with the marinade and let sit for ~20 min. Preheat oven to 375F. Toss tofu with the cornstarch, then toss with the breadcrumbs. Add to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, leaving space between each piece so they can really get crispy. Bake for 25-30 min or until golden brown and crispy. 

Sauce:
3/4 c peanut butter
3-4 tbsp low sodium soy sauce or tamari
1-2 tbsp maple syrup
1 tbsp toasted sesame oil omit if you don’t want any sesame flavor
2 tbsp rice vinegar
~1/4-1/2 cup warm water to thin
1/2 tsp ground ginger
2 small cloves garlic finely minced
1 tbsp lime juice
1/4-1/2 tsp red pepper flakes

Add all ingredients aside from the water and whisk together until smooth. Slowly pour in the water until your desired consistency is reached. Start with 1/4 c and add more as needed. Taste and adjust seasonings as desired. You may want more soy sauce, sweetener or red pepper flakes. This makes more than needed for the bowls, can refigerate the remainder for other uses. Will probably want close to 1/2 c water for this use.

Bowl:
2 cups cooked rice quinoa or rice noodles are also great
1 avocado
2 red bell peppers
3 c chopped kale
4 green onions chopped
1 tbsp olive oil
chopped peanuts for garnish (optional)

Slice the red peppers into thin strips and add to a pan with 1 tbsp of oil. Saute for 10 min or until it starts to brown on the sides. Add in the kale and let wilt for 1-2 min. When the tofu is done, remove from the oven and let cool for 5 min. Toss with 1/2 c of sauce. Assemble your bowls starting with the rice, add the veggies, avocado, scallions and tofu and drizzle with the remaining sauce. 



Notes: After you toss the tofu with the peanut sauce, you can pop it back in the oven to make it extra crispy, or enjoy as is.
