Pear Ginger Pie

3 lbs (6 large) d'anjou pears, peeled, quartered, cored, and sliced crosswise 1/4" thick
1/2 c + 1 tbsp granulated sugar, divided
1/2 c crystallized ginger, roughly chopped
1/4 c cornstarch
2 tbsp oj
1 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp cinnamon
1/4 tsp ground ginger
1 egg, beaten
pie crust

In a large bowl, toss the pears with 1/2 c of sugar, ginger, cornstarch, oj, salt, cinnamon, and ground ginger. Let sit for 30 min at room temp. Preheat oven to 350F. Strain the pears of any excess liquid and transfer the liquid to a small saucepan over medium high heat. Cook, stirring constantly, until the liquid has thickened, 2-3 min. Tehn add the liquid back to the bowl with the pears and toss to incorporate. On a lightly floured surface, roll out 1 disk of pie dough into a 12" circle. Transfer to a 9" pie tin pressing to fit the tin, leaving at least 1" of overhang on the sides. Spoon the filling into pie, spreading to make an even layer. Roll out second disk of dough into a 10" square. Using a knife, cut 18 1/2" strips of dough. Take 3 strips of the dough and braid into 1 strand. Repeat this process until you have 6 braided strips. Place 3 strips horizontally across the top, then pull alternating strips back and lay the additional strips perpendicular. Trim off extra dough, then roll up the edge to make a rim around the dish. Using your fingers, crimp the edges of the pie. Brush the dough liberally with the beaten egg, then sprinkle the remaining 1 tbsp of sugar over the top. Bake until the crust is golden brown and the filling has thickened, 1 hr - 1 hr 10 min. Remove from the oven and let cool completely before serving.

Crust:
2 tbsp white distilled vinegar
2 tbsp vodka
1/3 c ice water
ice, for chilling
2 1/2 c ap flour
1 tbsp sugar
1/2 c chortening, chilled, and cut into 1/2" pieces
1/2 c (1 stick) unsalted butter, chilled and cut into 1/2" pieces

In a small liquid measuring cup, combine the vinegar, vodka, and water. Fill with ice and chill until ready to use. In a large bowl. whisk together the flour, sugar, and salt. Add the shortening and use a pastry cutter to cut the fat into the flour until the mixture resembles a coarse meal, with a few pea size butter pieces. Pour 1/4 c of the liquid mixture over the flour and stir with a fork. Add another 3-6 tbsp of liquid and with your fingertips, briefly mix into a shaggy dough. Divide the dough in half. Gather one half into a loose ball and wrap in plastic wrap, using the wrap as an aid to tuck and seal the dough into a smooth 4" disc. Chill in the fridge for at least 1 hr or up to 3 days. Can freeze for up to 1 month.
