Pecan Pie
  --America's Test Kitchen

Crust:
1 1/4 c (6 1/4 oz) unbleached ap flour + more for dusting
1 tbsp sugar
1/2 tsp salt
3 tbsp chilled solid vegetable shortening
4 tbsp (1/2 stick) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/4" pieces
4-5 tbsp ice water

Mix flour, sugar, and salt in food processor fitted with steel blade. Scatter butter and shortening over dry ingredients and pulse until mixture resembles coarse cornmeal, 10-15 s. Turn mixture into medium bowl. Sprinkle 3 tbsp ice water over mixture. With blade of rubber spatula, use folding motion to mix. Press down on dough with broad side of spatula until dough sticks together. If dough does not come together, stir in remaining ice water, 1 tsp at a time, until it does. Shape dough into ball with hands, then flatten into 4" disk. Dust dough lightly with flour, wrap tightly in plastic wrap, and place in refrigerator for at least 1 hr or up to 2 days. Roll dough on lightly floured surface into 13" circle and transfer to 9" pie pan, preferably glass. Press dough into corners and sides of pan, being careful not to stretch dough. Trim edges of dough to make 1/2" over hang. Tuck overhanging dough under to ath folded edge is flush with rim of pan. Flute edge. Chill shell until firm, ~1 hr. Prick sides and bottom with fork and line entire shell with heavy duty aluminum foil, pressing foil firmly against shell and extending it over fluted rim. Prick foil with fork and return shell to refrigerator while oven is heating. Adjust oven rack to center position and heat oven to 400F. Bake, pressing once or twice with mitt-protected hands, if necessary, to flatten any puffing, until crust is firmly set, ~15 min. Remove foil and continue to bake until bottom begins to color, about 10 minutes longer. Remove from oven, and set aside while preparing the filling. Lower temp to 275F. Place pie shell in oven if not still warm.

Filling:
6 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1"
1 c (7 oz) packed dark brown sugar
1/2 tsp table salt
3 large eggs
3/4 c light corn syrup
1 tbsp vanilla
2 c whole pecans (8 oz) toasted and chopped into small pieces

Melt butter in medium heatproof bowl set in skillet of water maintained at just below simmer. Remove bowl from skillet; mix in sugar and salt with wooden spoon until butter is absorbed. Beat in eggs, then corn syrup and vanilla. Return bowl to hot water; stir until mixture is shiny and warm to the touch, about 130 degrees. Remove from heat; stir in pecans. Pour mixture into warm shell; bake until center feels set yet soft, like gelatin, when gently pressed, 50-60 min. Transfer pie to rack; let cool completely, at least 4 hours. Serve pie at room temperature or warm, with lightly sweetened whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.


To make ahead: The pie can be stored at room temperature, wrapped tightly in foil, for up to 2 days. If you prefer to serve the pie warm, cool the pie thoroughly so that it sets completely, then rewarm it in a 250F oven for ~15 min. 
