Pesto Chicken Pasta Casserole
  --Elyse Ellis 
  
16 oz penne pasta
4 boneless skinless chicken breasts cooked and shredded, could also use rotisserie chicken
1/2 c milk
4 c shredded mozzarella cheese
3 c baby spinach
15 oz can diced tomatoes drained
15 oz jar alfredo sauce
1/2 c prepared pesto
1/2 c plain bread crumbs
1/2 c grated Parmesan cheese
1 tbsp olive oil

Preheat oven to 350 F. Cook pasta according to package directions, drain and set aside. In a large mixing bowl, combine pasta, chicken, milk, mozzarella cheese, baby spinach, diced tomatoes, Alfredo sauce and pesto. Mix until well combined. Spread mixture into a 9×13" baking pan sprayed with nonstick cooking spray. In a small mixing bowl, combine bread crumbs, Parmesan cheese and olive oil. Sprinkle crumb mixture on top of casserole. Bake for 35-40 min, or until crumb topping is golden brown and casserole is heated through.


quick pesto:
3 c fresh basil leaves
1 1/2 c chopped walnuts
4 cloves garlic, peeled
1/4 c grated parmesan cheese
1 c olive oil
salt and pepper to taste

In a food processor, blend together basil leaves, nuts, garlic, and cheese. Pour in oil slowly while still mixing. Stir in salt and pepper.

vegan alfredo sauce:
  --Brandi Doming
  
1 medium white onion, diced (200g) (MAKE SURE to measure out 1 1/2 c b/c this is where lots of flavor comes)
1-2 c (240-480g) low sodium vegetable broth, divided
1/2 tsp salt
1/4-1/2 tsp ground black pepper
4 x-large (15g) minced garlic cloves
1/2 heaping c (75g) raw unsalted cashews (see NOTE)
1/2-1 tbsp lemon juice (start with just 1/2 and taste after blended!)
2-4 tbsp nutritional yeast

Add the onion and ONLY 1 c of the broth to a large pan over medium to medium-high heat. Cook for ~8 min until the onion is very tender. (Add a tiny bit more broth if it is cooking too fast or turn the heat down, so the onions don't burn) After 8 min, add the garlic and cook a couple of min more, stirring often. All of the broth should have evaporated by now. If not, keep letting it cook until the broth is GONE. You don't want any more liquid once it's done cooking, so the end result is thick and creamy. Add the cooked veggies (the onion and garlic) to a blender. Start out by adding JUST 1/2 c more of the remaining broth and add the remaining ingredients (salt, pepper, cashews, starting with JUST 1/2 tbsp lemon juice, nutritional yeast-starting with just 2 tbsp yeast). Blend on high for a couple of minutes until very creamy and smooth. Add any more broth to reach desired consistency, if necessary. I did not. If you don't add more broth, you would likely not need any more yeast. Taste and add any more salt & pepper or lemon, if desired.


alt alfredo:
  --Minimalist Baker
  
4 large cloves garlic
3 tbsp olive oil
4 tbsp arrowroot powder (or gf ap flour, or ap flour)
1 3/4 - 2 c almond milk
1/2 salt
1/2 tsp pepper
1/4 c vegan parmesan cheese
4-6 tbsp nooch
1/2 tsp garlic powder

Heat a large skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add olive oil and garlic, stirring quickly to ensure it doesn’t burn. Next, reduce heat slightly and add arrowroot or flour and whisk to combine. Cook for ~1 min and then add almond milk 1/4 c at a time up to 1 3/4 c (or 2 if needed) whisking to prevent clumps. Cook for 2 min. Transfer to a blender and add salt, pepper, vegan parmesan cheese, nooch, garlic powder, and blend on high until creamy and smooth, scraping down sides as needed. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed – you want it to be pretty cheesy and salty so don't be shy. Return sauce back to skillet and cook on medium heat until it bubbles, then reduce heat to low and cook until thickened, stirring frequently. If sauce is too thick, add a little more milk. If too thin, scoop out some sauce in a 1/2 c measuring cup and whisk in 1-2 tsp more arrowroot or flour (amounts as original recipe is written // adjust if altering batch size). Whisk to combine and add back to sauce. Repeat as needed until desired consistency is reached.






Notes: Make sure to rinse your pasta off in cold water after you boil it. This will keep it from sticking together when you’re trying to mix it with your other casserole ingredients. Whole wheat or gf pasta work well with this recipe. Can use jarred sauces or make your own. If you are using raw cashews and you don't have a high-powered blender, then you must soak them overnight in a bowl of water, drain and rinse. Otherwise, your result will be gritty and NOT creamy. A food processor usually works better with soaked cashews versus a blender that isn't very powerful.
