Pho Bo: Beef Noodle Soup

Stock
1 medium yellow onion, unpeeled
2" piece fresh ginger
1 lb oxtail, cut into 2"-3" pieces
1 lb beef neck bones
1 lb beef shank bones
1 lb beef marrow bones
1 tbsp light brown sugar
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp ground white pepper
2" piece of Chinese cinnamon
1 star anise pod
1 clove (whole)

Preheat oven to 350F. On a rimmed baking sheet, roast the onion and ginger until the onion is very soft, about 1 hr. Remove from the oven and let cool slightly. Peel the onion and cut in half. Slice the unpeeled ginger into 1/4" thick coins. While the onion and ginger are roasting, blanch the bones: In a large pot, bring 6 quarts of water to a boil. Add the oxtails, neck bones, and shanks, and boil for 3 min. Drain and rinse the bones with cold water and return to the pot. Add the marrow bones. Add the onion halves, ginger slices, sugar, salt, and 6 quarts of fresh water to the bot and bring to a boil over high heat, skimming off any foam that forms on the surface. Reduce the heat to medium, so the liquid is barely at a simmer, and simmer for 3 hrs, skimming as needed. Add the white pepper, cinnamon, star anise, and clove. Continue cooking for 1 hr longer. Remove the stock from the heat and using a spider or slotted spoon, discard the solids. Strain the stock through a fine-mesh sieve into a large bowl. Allow the liquid to sit at room temp for 1 hr to cool slightly, then skim most of the fat from the surface and reserve for a later use. Let the stock cool completely, then transfer it to an airtight container(s) and refrigerate for up to 3 days or freeze for up to 3 months. Makes 3 quarts.


Beef Noodle Soup
1 lb beef brisket
3 quarts beef stock
Fish sauce, for seasoning (optional)
1 16oz package drid rice stick noodles, cooked according to package directions
3/4 lb beef top round, sliced very thinly agains the grain
3 thinly sliced scallions
1/2 c finely chopped cilantro

Place the brisket in a large pot and add the stock. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer over medium heat. Cook the brisket for 30-45 min or until cooked through. Prep an ice bath. When the brisket is done, remove it from the pot and submerge it in the ice bath for 3-4 min or until the brisket has cooled completely. Remove, pat dry and slice thinly against the grain. Set aside. Return the stock to a boil over medium high heat. If the broth needs a bit more salt, season it with fish sauce. To assemble the beef noodle soup, divide the cooked noodles among warmed soup bowls. Top with the brisket slices and raw beef slices. Ladle the hot stock over each bowl and top with scallion and cilantro. Finish each bowl with a spoonful of the reserved beef fat. Serve immediately with plate of garnishes (bean sprouts, thai basil, lime wedges, jalapenos)

