Phyllo Dough

300g ap flour (10.5oz)
5 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp red wine vinegar
1 tsp salt
130-150g water (1/2-3/4 c)

In a large mixing bowl add the flour and salt; make a well in the center and pour in the vinegar and oil. Using a dough hook mix to combine the ingredients for 10-15s. Depending on the kind of flour, the weather, the humidity, and various factors, the dough may need a little bit more or less water. The secret to make perfect dough is the amount of water; a few more drops may have a huge imapct. Start by adding 130g of water at first (1/2 c) and mix, until the flour absorbs the water; after mixing for a while, the dough should become an elastic ball. The perfect dough should be soft, malleable, and smooth. IF the dough is still crumbly, then add a little more water, a few drops at a time. If you add too much, the dough will become sticky. You can fix by adding more flour, start with 1/2 tsp. Cut the dough into balls slightly larger than a golf ball, approx 80g each. Coat lightly with olive oil, wrap with some plastic, and let dough rest for 45-60 min. Place one ball of dough on a floured surface and coat your rolling pin with flour. Make a circle of dough with your hands; then start rolling, making sure you have enough flour to prevent sticking to work surface or pin. Roll until it becomes a very thin, round sheet, the thinner, the better. 
Can use immediately or freeze until ready for use.


variant

6.5 c bread flour (800g hard flour type M, or ap flour)
2 tbsp olive oil + more for spreading
1 pinch sea salt
2 c (400mL) water
2 tbsp white vinegar or wine
corn flour to dust while rolling out phyllo

On a flat surface or in a large bowl, add the flour and make a well. Add salt, oil, and vinegar. With your hands, mix ingredients well, gradually adding water as needed. Knead the dough until you have a soft but not sticky dough (~10 min of kneading). Cut the dough into 5 roughly equal sized balls. Shape each ball and leave to rest, dusting with corn flour as needed at the end to prevent sticking. With a short, thick rolling pin, press one ball of dough to flatten it as much as you can. Roll until the dough is ~1/4" thick, keeping roughly the shape of a circle. Switch to a thin, longer rolling pin (1/2" dowel, at least 24" long) With the dough facing you, begin rolling the dough onto the rolling pin starting at 8 o'clock. Roll the dough all the way on to the pin. With the rolling pin and dough now facing you, roll out the dough, pressing from the center to the edges to "open" the dough. When the dough is off the pin, repeat the process, rolling the dough back on to the pin starting at the 8 o'clock position. Continue to roll out the dough, sprinkling corn flour on the top of dough as needed to prevent any stickiness. Repeat the process until the dough becomes paper thin (you will probably need to repeat opening process at least 10 times, and possibly up to 20). Repeat the process for remaining balls.

