Pineapple Buns

Sponge:
3/4 c bread flour
1/2 c milk, heated to 115F
1 1/2 tsp active dry yeast

In a medium bowl, whisk together all the ingredients. Cover with plastic wrap and let proof in a warm place until it doubles in size, 3 hrs.

Dough
2 1/4 c bread flour
2 tbsp granulated sugar
1 tbsp kosher salt
4 eggs
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, softened + more for greasing

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook attachment, combine the sponge, flour, sugar, salt, and eggs. Mix on low speed for 4 min. Turn the speed to medium and knead until the dough pulls away from the bowl and starts to form a ring around the sides. Add half of the butter amd mix until fully combined. Add the other half and mix until fully incorporated. Place the dough on a greased, parchment lined baking sheet. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.

Pnieapple Butter:
3 c (14oz) diced pineapple
1 tbsp whole green cardamom pods, crushed
1/2 vanilla bean, scraped
cheesecloth and butcher's twine, for sachet
2/3 c sugar
5 tbsp unsalted butter

In a blender, puree the pineapple until smooth and transfer to a medium saucepan. In a small square of cheesecloth, place the cardamom, scraped vanilla bean, and tie together with twine. Add the sachet with the sugar and butter to the saucepan, and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to a steady simmer and cook, stirring constantly until reduced to 1 c, 10 min. Let cool completely, then store in the refrigerator until ready to use.

Icing and Garnish:
6 tbsp pineapple juice
3 3/4 c (1 lb) confectioners' sugar
1/2 c pearl sugar

Whisk the pineapple juice and confectioners' sugar until smooth, then set aside.


On a floured surface, shape the chilled brioche into a rectangular block. Roll the dough into a 14" square, 1/2" thick. Evenly spread the pineapple butter across the dough all the way to the edges. Working from the bottom, roll the dough tightly into a log. Place in the refrigerator until firm enough to cleanly slice, 30 min. Preheat the oven to 350F. Slice the log into 1 1/2" slices, place the slices cut sides up in a parchment lined 9" round cake pan. Cover the pan with a kitchen towl and proof in a warm place until the buns have filled the pan, 1 1/2 - 2 hrs. Bake the buns, rotating halfway through, until the entire pan is golden brown, 35-40 min. Let the buns sit until the pan is cool to the touch. Run an offset spatula around the edge of the pan and in between each bun. Carefully remove the buns and place on a cooling rack. Drizzle the icing over the buns and sprinkle with the pearl sugar, then serve.
