Crepes with Caramelized Pineapple and Coconut Dulce de Leche
  --Gayle Pirie and John Clark

Crepes:
6 tbsp ap flour
¼ tsp sugar
¼ tsp kosher salt
1 c whole milk
1½ tsp canola oil
1 large egg
¼ c (½ stick) unsalted butter, melted + 2 tbsp unmelted
¼ c pale lager beer

Sift the flour, sugar, and salt into a large bowl. Whisk in the milk, oil, and egg until combined. Add the melted butter in a steady stream, whisking briskly. Finally, whisk in the beer until everything is evenly incorporated. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hr or overnight (the longer time will improve the texture of the crepes).

Dulce de Leche:
14 oz can coconut milk
2 c milk
½ c sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
1 tsp baking soda

In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the coconut milk, milk, sugar and salt. Bring to a boil over high heat, then immediately turn off the heat and add the baking soda carefully, as the liquid will bubble. Return the mixture to the heat and cook at a low simmer until it is reduced by about half (~2 c), ~30 min, stirring occasionally at first and more frequently as it thickens. Let cool to room temperature.

Pineapple:
1 pineapple—peeled, cored and cut into ½" cubes
½ c packed brown sugar
2 tsp vanilla 
1 tsp kosher salt
2 tbsp unsalted butter

In a large bowl, toss the pineapple with the brown sugar, vanilla, and salt to evenly coat the fruit. Set aside to macerate for 10 min. Melt the butter in a large, heavy skillet over high heat. Add the pineapple and its juices and cook, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon, until almost no liquid remains, 8-10 min. Continue to cook, stirring, until the pineapple is caramelized on all sides, 3-5 min more. Remove from the heat and set aside.

Assembly:
Heat the remaining 2 tbsp butter in a small saucepan over medium-high heat until the white solids come to the surface, 7-8 min. Skim off and discard the solids. Remove the clarified butter from the heat and set aside. Line a 9" or larger plate with parchment paper and set it by the stove. Cut 15 similar pieces of parchment paper for layering between the crepes. Heat a 9-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Dip a paper towel into the clarified butter and use it to carefully wipe a thin layer of butter over the surface of the pan. Ladle or pour 2 tbsp of batter into the pan, immediately tilting it in all directions to evenly coat. Cook until the crepe is lightly browned at the edges, 1-2 min. (It's not unusual for the first crepe to stick to the pan a bit.) Gently invert the crepe and cook until the second side is lightly browned at the edges, about 45-60s. Transfer the crepe to the lined plate. Repeat to cook the remaining crepes, buttering the pan between them and topping each with a piece of parchment paper. You should have about 15 crepes. Fold each warm crepe in half, then in half again to create a small triangle. Arrange the crepes on individual dessert plates and top each with heaping spoonfuls of the warm caramelized pineapple. Drizzle with the coconut dulce de leche and serve.


