Pistachio Baklava with Cardamom and Rose Water
  --Cook's Illustrated
  
Syrup:
1 3/4 c sugar
3/4 c water
1 tbsp lemonjuice
10 black peppercorns
1/8 tsp salt
1 tbsp rosewater

Combine everything except rose water in small saucepan and bring to full boil over medium high heat, stirring occasionally to ensure sugar dissolves. Transfer to 2 c measuring cup and set aside to cool. When it is cool, discard peppercorns and stir in rosewater. Cooled syrup can be stored in refrigerator up to 4 days.

Filling:
12 oz shelled pistachios, raw
1 tsp ground cardamom
2 tbsp sugar
1/8 tsp salt

Pulse pistachios in food processor until very finely chopped, ~15 1s pulses; transfer to bowl. Measure out 1 tbsp nuts and set aside for garnish. Add remaining ingredients; toss well to combine.

Pastry:
1 1/2 c unsalted butter (3 sticks) clarified, melted, and cooled slightly (~1 c)
1 lb frozen phyllo thawed

Let melted butter settle for 10 min. Carefully skim off foam from surface. Spoon butterfar into small cup, tipping saucepan gently and only when it becomes necessary. Make sure to leave water and milk solids behind in saucepan to be discarded.

Assemble:
Brush 13x9" traditional baking pan with butter. Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heat to 300F. Unwrap and unfold phyllo on large cutting board; carefully smooth with hands to flatten. Using baking pan as a guide, cut sheets crosswise, yielding 2 roughly evenly sized stacks of phyllo (one may be narrower). Cover with plastic wrap, then damp kitchen towel to prevent drying. Place 1 phyllo sheet from wider stack in bottom of baking pan and brush until completely coated with butter. Repeat with 7 more phyllo sheets, brushing each with butter. Evenly distribute ~1 c nut filling over phyllo. Cover nuts with phyllo sheet from narrower stack and dab with butter. Repeat with 5 more phyllo sheets from narrower stack, staggering sheets slightly if necessary, to cover nuts, and brushing each with butter. Repeat layering with additional 1 c filling, 6 sheets phyllo, and remaining 1 c nuts. Finish with 8-10 sheets phyllo from wider stack, using nicest and most intact sheets for uppermost layers and brushing each except final sheet with butter. Use palms of hands to compress layers, working from center outwards to press out any air pockets. Spoon 4 tbsp butter on top layer and brush to cover all surfaces. Use bread knife or other serrated knife with pointed tip in gentl sawing motion to cut baklava into diamonds, rotating pan as necessary to complete cuts. Bake until golden and crisped, ~1 1/2 hrs, rotating baking pan halfway through baking. Immediately after removing from oven, pour cooled syrup overcut lines until ~2 tbsp remain; drizzle remaining syrup over surface. Garnish center of each piece with pinch of reserved nuts. Cool to room temp on wire rack, ~3 hrs, then cover with foil and let stand at least 8 hrs before serving. Once cooled, can be served, however flavor and texture imrpove if left to stand at least 8 hrs. Can wrap tightly in foil and keep at room temp for up to 10 days.

