Pork Adobo
  --Nagi Maehashi

1 kg/2 lb pork shoulder (the parts ribboned with fat not lean parts), skinless, cut into 6cm/2.5" cubes – or belly
2 tbsp vegetable oil , or any other neutral flavoured oil
1 large onion , cut in half then 0.8″ / 1/3″ wedges
8 cloves garlic , finely sliced
3 c water
1/2 c light soy sauce , sub regular/all-purpose soy
1 1/2 tsp dark soy sauce
1/4 cup rice vinegar (sub regular white vinegar)
3 tbsp (tightly packed) brown sugar
1 1/2 tsp black peppercorns , can omit
5 bay leaves
6 pineapple rings , each cut into 8 pieces, from canned pineapple in juice not syrup, or 2 cups fresh pineapple pieces (optional)
2 tsp vegetable oil , or any other neutral flavoured oil

Heat the oil in a large heavy based pot over high heat. Sear half the pork until golden all over – ~4 min – then remove into a bowl. Repeat with remaining pork, add to the bowl. Reduce heat to medium. Add the onion, cook for 2 min. Add garlic and cook for another min until the onion is softened. Add water, soy sauces, vinegar, sugar, peppercorns and bay leaves. Stir. Add the pork back in, including any juices accumulated in the bowl. Bring to a boil, then partially cover with a lid (leave a 2cm /1" crack) and reduce the heat to low/medium low so the liquid is simmering very, very gently. Simmer for 1 1/2 hr or until the pork is fall-apart tender (keep simmering if not tender). While pork is simmering, heat the oil in a non-stick pan over medium heat. Spread the pineapple out in one layer and cook each side until golden, ~4 min each side (I use spatula + tongs to turn). Remove onto plate until required. Remove pork with a slotted spoon (onion etc doesn't matter when it's in or out). Increase heat to high and boil to reduce the liquid down to 1 1/2 c – it will be a very thin syrup (it's not supposed to be thick), ~7-10 min. Reduce heat to low. Add the pork and pineapple pieces, plus any juices in the bowl. Stir gently to coat in the sauce and warm the pork through again. 

Garnish/Serving:
1 green onion , finely sliced
2 batches jasmine rice, or any other rice of choice (garlic rice would be amazing!)

Serve over jasmine rice, garnished with green onion if using.


Notes: Pork belly is the most common cut used for pork adobo and can be used, can use shoulder for the same fall-apart-juicy meat but less fatty. Make sure to use the parts of the shoulder ribboned with fat, not the lean fat-free areas. Shank/knuckle or forequarter chop meat also works really well. Pork neck/scotch is excellent too but reduce simmering time to 1 hr


