Pork and Cabbage Dumplings (Wor Tip)
  --Cook's Illustrated

Filling:
3 c minced napa cabbage leaves (~1/2 medium head)
3/4 tsp salt
3/4 lb ground pork
4 minced scallions (~6 tbsp)
2 egg whites, lightly beaten
4 tsp shoyu
1 1/2 tsp minced or grated fresh ginger
1 medium garlic clove, minved (~1 tsp)
1/8 tsp ground black pepper

Toss cabbage with salt in a colander set over a bowl and let stand until cabbage begins to wilt, ~20 min. Press the cabbage gently with rubber spatula to squeeze out any excess moisture, then transfer to a medium bowl. Add the remaining filling ingredients and mix thoroughly to combine. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until mixture is cold, at least 30 min or up to 24 hrs.

Dumplings:
24 round gyoza wrappers
2 tbsp vegetable oil
1 c water + extra for brushing

Work with 4 wrappers at a time, place rounded tbsp of filling in center of wrapper. Moisten edge of wrapper and fold in half; pinch dumpling closed pressing out any air pockets. Place dumpling on it's side and press gently to flatten. Makes ~24 dumplings. Transfer dumplings to baking sheet. They can been wrapped tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerated for up to 1 day, or frozen for up to 1 month. Once frozen, can be transfered to a ziptop bag, do not thaw before cooking. Line a large plate with double layer of paper towels; set aside. Brush 1 tbsp of oil over the bottom of a 12" skillet and arrange helf the dumplings in the skillet, with a flat side facing down. Place the skillet over medium high heat and cook the dumplings, without moving, until golden brown on the bottom, ~5 min. Reduce the heat to low, add 1/2 c of water, and cover immediately. Continue to cook, covered, until most of the water is absorbed and the wrappers are slightly translucent, ~10 min. Uncover the skillet, increase the heat to medium high, and continue to cook, without stirring, until the bottoms are well browned and crisp, 3-4 min. Slide dumplings onto prepared plate, briwned side down and let drain briefly. Transfer to serving plate and setve. Let skillet cool until just warm, wipe clean, and repeat with second batch.
