Pasteis de Nata (Portuguese Egg Tarts)
   -George Mendes

Puff Pastry:
1½ sticks unsalted butter, softened
1¾ c ap flour + more for dusting
⅔ c water
¼ tsp kosher salt

In a small bowl, whisk the butter until it is the consistency of sour cream. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine the flour, water and salt. Mix on low speed,  scraping the bowl down occasionally, until the mixture comes together and has a tacky consistency. Transfer to a well-floured work surface and form into a 1" rectangle. Using a floured rolling pin, roll the dough into a ½" thick rectangle, 10" long. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for 15 min. Remove the plastic wrap and roll the dough into a 15" square, dusting with more flour as needed. Spread a third of the butter on the bottom half of the dough, leaving a 1" rim. Using a bench scraper, fold the top half of the dough over the butter. Press the edges to seal and pat the dough with the rolling pin. Roll the dough into another 15" square. Spread half of the remaining butter on the bottom half of the dough, leaving a 1" rim. Using the bench scraper, fold the top half of the dough over the butter. Press the edges to seal. Pat the dough with the rolling pin and rotate the dough so that the seam is facing you. Now, roll into an 18" square. Spread the remaining butter all over the dough, leaving a 1" rim. Starting with the edge closest to you, roll the dough into a tight log. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate until very firm, at least 2 hours, preferably overnight.
On a lightly floured surface, trim the ends of the dough to make sure they're even, then cut the log into thirty ½" slices. Place each slice into the cavity of an egg tart mold or muffin tin, with the cut side of the spiral facing up. Use your thumb to press the center of the spiral into the bottom of the pan and continue pressing to evenly flatten the dough against the bottom and sides of the cavity, extending about 1⁄16" above the rim of the tart molds or ¾" up the sides of the muffin tin. Repeat with the remaining dough. Refrigerate until firm, 10 min. 
Filling:
1 c granulated sugar
⅔ c water
1 cinnamon stick
1 c + 6 tbsp whole milk, divided
½ c ap flour
6 egg yolks
Ground cinnamon, for garnish

Preheat the oven to 500°. In a medium saucepan, combine the sugar, water and cinnamon stick over high heat. Bring to a boil and cook for 1 min, then remove from the heat and let sit until ready to use. 
In a small saucepan, heat 1 c + 1 tbsp of the milk over medium heat until bubbles begin to form around the edges, 4-5 min. In a large bowl, whisk the flour with the remaining 5 tbsp of milk. Continue whisking while adding the hot milk in a slow, steady stream. Discard the cinnamon stick from the sugar syrup and whisk the syrup into the milk mixture in a steady stream. Return to the saucepan and cook over low heat, whisking constantly, until thickened 10-12 min. Add the yolks to the mixture and whisk until well combined, then strain through a fine-mesh sieve. Pour 1½ tbsp of the warm filling into each pastry shells.


Bake until the shells are golden brown and crisp, the custards are set, and the tops are blackened in spots, 15-20 min. Let cool in the pans on wire racks for 5  min. Then, remove the molds, transfer the tarts to the wire racks and sprinkle with cinnamon. Serve warm.

