Portuguese Roast Turkey

Brine:
6 quarts (24 c) water
6 c sugar
4 c kosher salt
12 cloves
8 pieces star anise
6 bay leaves, torn in half
3 cinnamon sticks
3 tbsp white peppercorns
2 tbsp fennel seeds
2 tbsp coriander seeds

In a large pot, combine the brine ingredients and place over medium high heat. Bring to a simmer, stirring occasionally, until the sugar and salt have dissolved, 8-10 min. Remove from the heat and chill, uncovered, in the fridge until cool, ~1 hr. Once chilled the brine can be covered and stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. Rince the turkey and neck, and place inside a 5 gallon container (or a large cooler). Pour the chilled brine over the turkey and top with a heavy plate, submergine the turkey. Cover and refrigerate for 6-8 hrs.

Marinade:
3 c olive oil
1 1/2 c lager
3 tbsp spanish sweet paprika
1/2 yellow onion, thinly sliced
7 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
3 fresh bay leaves, torn

In a medium bowl combine the marinade ingredients. The marinade can be made and stored in the fridge for up to 5 days.

Turkey:
10-12 lb turkey, giblets removed and neck reserved
2 red onions, peeled and cut into 1 1/2" pieces
1 large carrot, peeled and cut into 1 1/2" pieces
2 bay leaves, torn
1 tbsp kosher salt
1/4 c marinade + more for basting

Remove the turkey from the brine and rinse under cold water. Discard the brine. Rinse out the 5 gallon container and return the turkey to it. Pour the marinade over the turkey, rubbing all over the outside and the inner cavity; cover and chill in refrigerator for 8-10 hrs. Adjust the rack to the lower third of the oven, and preheat to 400F. Cut off the turkey's wing tips, reserving them, and tie the legs together with kitchen twine. Combine the turkey neck, wing tips, red onions, carrots, and bay leaves in a large roasting pan. Place the turkey on top, breast side up, and rub with the salt and 1/4 c of the marinade. Roast the turkey in the preheated oven until the skin is browned, 40-50 min, basting the bird and rotating the pan halfway through roasting, covering any dark spots with aluminum foil. Lower the oven to 300. Baste the turkey with marinade and pour 1 c of water into the pan, creating steam to help cook the turkey. Continue to roast the turkey, rotating the pan and basting every 30 min until a meat thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh reaches just under 160F, 1 1/2-2hrs. Remove the turkey from the oven and let it rest in the roasting pan for 30 min before carving. Serve with the pan drippings and roasted vegetables.

