Dante's Potato Salad

1/4 c + 1 tbsp olive oil, divided
1 large spanish onion, diced
4 lb yukon gold or other waxy potatoes
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
2 tbsp whole grain mustard
1/4 c cider vinegar
pinch of cayenne pepper
3 tbsp finely chopped chives

In a large skillet over medium low heat, warm 1 tbsp of the oil. Add the onion and cook, stirring often, until translucent and just tender, 8-10 min. Transfer to a bowl and let cool. In a large saucepan, cover the potatoes with water by 1" and season generously with salt. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to a simmer and cook until the potatoes are tender, 25-30 min. Drain the potatoes and tranfer to a cutting board. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the mustard, vinegar, and cayenne. Slowly whisk in the remaining oil. Season with salt and pepper. When the potatoes are cool enough to handle, cut them into 1/2" dice. Toss the warm potatoes and onions with the vinaigrette. Ad the chives, season with salt and pepper, and toss again. Serve immediately or refrigerate for up to 1 day.



#variant
#foodiecrusheats

3 lb red potatoes
5 tbsp white wine vinegar , divided
1/2 c evoo
2 tsp Dijon mustard
1 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/2 small red onion , sliced (~1 c)
2 tbsp minced fresh dill
2 tbsp minced fresh basil
2 tbsp minced Italian flat leaf parsley

Put the potatoes in a medium saucepan and cover with cold water by ~2". Bring to a boil over high heat, add 1 tbsp of kosher salt, and cook the potatoes until tender, ~15-20 min or until fork tender. Drain well. As soon as the potatoes are cool enough to handle, cut them in half and place them in a large mixing bowl. While the potatoes are still hot, sprinkle them with 3 tbsp of the vinegar and let cool to absorb the vinegar. In a small bowl, whisk the olive oil, remaining vinegar, Dijon mustard, kosher salt and pepper. Drizzle the dressing over the potato mixture and gently toss. Add the sliced onion and minced herbs and toss again. Season with more salt and pepper to taste. Serve warm, at room temperature, or chilled. Keeps in the refrigerator for 3-4 days.

Notes: tastes better 2nd or 3rd day

