Pumpkin Flan

1 3/4 c (350g) granulated sugar, divided
1 cinnamon stick
2 c (473ml) half and half
4 large eggs + 2 large egg yolks
1 tsp vinlla
1/2 tsp pumpkin pie spice*
1/8 tsp fine salt
1/2 c (125g) pumpkin puree
1/2 c (125g) butternut squash puree

In a heavy saucepan, mix 3/4 c sugar and 1/4 c water. The mixture should look like wet sand. Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, until it begins to make large bubbles. Continue to cook without stirring, rotating the pan regluarly, until the caramel is translucent and amber-colored, 12-15 min. Working quickly, pour caramel into a 2 quart oven safe glass bolw and rotate the bowl so it coats the sides. In another saucepan, combine the remaining sugar, cinnamon stick, and half and half. Cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until sugar is dissolved, 5 min. Let cool. Heat oven to 350F. Whisk eggs and yolks in a large bowl until well blended. Whisk in vanilla, spices, salt, pumpkin and squash puress. Add cooled cream mixture and whisk well. Pour custard mixture through a mesh sieve, stirring and pressing with a spatula, into the bowl with the caramel. Place the bowl with the custard into a large baking dish and carefully add warm water until it reaches halfway up the sides of the flan bowl. Cover with foil and bake for 30 min. Remove foil and bake for another 45-60 min or until flan is just set in the middle, but still jiggles slightly. A wider, shallower baking vessel will cook more quickly than a deeper one. Remove flan from water bath and let cool to room temp. Refrigerate until complete cool, preferably overnight. To serve, run a knife around the edges of the flan, put a serving platter on top of the bowl and invert.

* pumpkin pie spice = 1/4 tsp cinnamon, 1/8 tsp ginger, 1/8 tsp nutmeg, and a pinch each of allspice and cloves.


Variant #2 from Ina Garten

Caramel:
¾ c sugar
1/3 c pure Grade A maple syrup
½ tsp fleur de sel

Combine sugar, maple syrup, and 1/3 c water in a small, deep, heavy bottomed saucepan. Bring to a boil, swirling the pan (don't stir) to dissolve the sugar. Cook at a low boil without stirring for 5-10 min, until the mixture turns a golden brown and registers 230F on a candy thermometer. Off the heat, swirl in the fleur de sel and immediately pour into an 8x2" round cake pan. Set aside to cool for 30 min.

Flan:
14 oz can sweetened condensed milk
12 oz can evaporated milk
1 c canned pumpkin puree
1/2 c (4oz) mascarpone
4 extra large eggs
1 tsp vanilla
½ tsp pure maple extract (ex Boyajian)
2 tsp grated orange zest (2 oranges)
1½ tsp cinnamon
½ tsp nutmeg

Place the milks, pumpkin, and mascarpone in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment and beat on medium low until smooth. Whisk in the eggs, vanilla, maple extract, orange zest, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Gently pour into the pan with the cooled caramel so they don't combine. Place the pan in a roasting pan large enough to hold the cake pan flat and fill the roasting pan with enough of hot water to come up halfway on the sides of the cake pan. Bake in the center of the oven for 70-75 min, until the custard is just set. It will be firm but jiggle slightly in the middle, a knife inserted in the center will come out clean. Remove flan from water bath, place on a cooling rack, and cool completely. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 3hrs. Run a small knife around the edge of the flan. Cover with a flat serving plate with a slight lip and flip the flan onto it. The caramel should run out over the flan.
