Pumpkin Ravioli
  --Tara, Modern Crumb

3 tbsp butter
3 cloves garlic minced
1/2 tsp dried nutmeg
10 oz pumpkin puree, 2/3 a can
1 1/2 c half & half
1 tsp fresh rosemary, minced
3/4 c fresh parmigianno reggiano cheese, grated
1/2 tsp salt
fresh pepper
20 oz store bought fresh cheese ravioli, cooked per the instructions

Melt butter in a pan over low heat. Add the minced garlic and stir, cook for 3-5 min to get the garlic nice and fragrant. Add the nutmeg. Turn heat up to med/low. Add the pumpkin puree, stirring; cook for 2-3 min. Pour in the half and half, whisking to incorporate. Add in the fresh rosemary, parmigiano cheese, salt and pepper. Turn heat up to medium and bring it to a low boil. Once it’s at this point turn heat back down to low. Pour the cooked ravioli in to the pumpkin sauce, mix and serve.


Cheese Ravioli with Pumpkin Cream Sauce
  --Cook's Country

1 1/2 lbs fresh cheese ravioli
5/8 tsp table salt, divided + salt for cooking pasta
5 tbsp unsalted butter, divided
1/4 c blanched hazelnuts, chopped
12 fresh sage leaves
1 tsp sherry vinegar
1/4 c finely chopped shallot
1/4 tsp ground nutmeg
1 c heavy cream
1/2 c canned unsweetened pumpkin puree
1 ounce Parmesan cheese, grated (1/2 c)

Bring 4 qt water to boil in large pot. Add pasta and 1 tbsp salt and cook, stirring often, until al dente. Reserve ½ cup cooking water, then drain pasta. Meanwhile, melt 4 tbsp butter in 12" nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add hazelnuts and sage and cook until sage is crispy, ~3 min. Using tongs, transfer sage to paper towel–lined plate; continue to cook butter and hazelnuts until both are browned and fragrant, ~1 min longer. Transfer to heatproof bowl and stir in vinegar and 1/8 tsp salt. Melt remaining 1 tbsp butter in now-empty skillet over medium heat. Add shallot, nutmeg, and remaining 1/2 tsp salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until shallot is softened, ~3 min. Stir in cream and pumpkin and bring to simmer. Cook until thickened, ~5 min. Off heat, stir in Parmesan. Add pasta and toss to combine. Adjust consistency with reserved cooking water as needed. Serve, topped with sage and hazelnut butter.


