Pumpkin Spice Kugel
  --Alon Shaya

12 tbsp (1½ sticks) unsalted butter, divided, + more for the pan
2 yellow onions, finely chopped
2 tbsp minced fresh ginger
Zest of 1 orange
½ c oj
¼ c Cointreau
2 tbsp + 2 tsp kosher salt, divided
1½ tsp pumpkin pie spice
3 tbsp + 1 c ap flour, divided
2 c milk
¼ c honey
10 oz bacon, finely chopped
1 c chopped pecans
⅓ c light brown sugar, packed 
4 qt water, plus more for a water bath 
1 lb dry fusilli noodles
3 eggs
2 egg yolks  
3 tbsp granulated sugar, plus more for dusting  
1½ c sour cream

Heat the oven to 350F with a rack in the bottom. Pull out a 13x9" baking dish or a 2-3-qt casserole dish as well as a larger, deep roasting pan that will hold it; set them both aside for later. Combine 8 tbsp of the butter in a saucepan with the onions and ginger over medium-low heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions are soft and translucent but no color has formed, 15 min or so. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the orange zest and juice, Cointreau, 2 tsp of the salt, and the pumpkin pie spice. Return it to medium-low heat and simmer for 5 min or so, until most of the liquid has reduced. Use a whisk to gradually incorporate 3 tbsp of the flour, then whisk in the milk and honey. Bring the sauce to a simmer and continue to cook for 10 min, whisking frequently to ensure that it doesn’t stick to the bottom of the pan. Remove from the heat and cool completely. Fry the bacon in a skillet over medium heat, stirring frequently. After ~10 min, when the fat has rendered and the bacon is golden and crisp around the edges, stir in the pecans and toast them in the bacon’s fat for another 2 min or so. Take the pan off the heat and add the brown sugar and remaining 4 tbsp butter. Stir until all the butter melts and set aside. Once it’s cooled to room temperature, carefully stir in the remaining flour until it’s thoroughly combined. In a large pot, combine the water with the remaining 2 tbsp salt and bring to a boil over high heat. Cook the pasta until it’s fully tender (softer than al dente) but not falling apart, 10 or 11 min. Strain and reserve. With a handheld mixer or a stand mixer with the whisk attachment, beat the whole eggs, yolks, and granulated  sugar together on high speed for ~5 min, pausing occasionally to scrape the sides of the bowl. You’re looking for the mixture to be pale and thick; when you lift the beater, it should fall in ribbons and not drip. Mix in the sour cream until it’s fully incorporated, then do the same with the orange béchamel. Fold in the cooked pasta by hand. Grease the casserole dish with butter and coat the inside with a thin, even layer of granulated sugar, shaking out any excess. Pour in the noodles and evenly spread the bacon and pecan mixture over the top. Set this dish into the larger roasting pan and pour hot water all around it so comes about halfway up the sides. Bake for ~1 hr, until a knife inserted in the center comes out clean and dry. Kugel can be served warm from the oven, at room temperature, or straight out of the fridge, and it will keep for a couple of days.
