Pupusas
  --Rick Martinez

1/4 c + 1/3 c vegetable oil, divided
1/2 medium white onion, halved, broken up into individual layers
15 oz can red beans (Central American) or red kidney beans
kosher salt
3 c instant corn masa flour (ex. maseca)
4 oz grated queso oaxaca or salted mozzarella (low moisture), ~1 c
Curtido (for serving)
salsa roja (for serving)

Heat 1/4c oil in a large skillet over medium high heat. Cook onion, tossing occasionally, until pieces are charred on all sides, 10-12 min. Be careful as oil will smoke and onion will pop. Transfer onion to a blender, reserving oil in pan. Add beans and their liquid to blender and puree, gradually adding 1/4 c warm water if needed, until smooth. Heat reserved oil over medium. Transfer bean mixture to skillet and cook, stirring and scraping bottom of pan occasionally, until mixture is consistency of thick greek yogurt, 5-10 min; season with salt. Let cool, beans will thicken as they sit; set aside. Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat masa flour, 3 tsp salt, and 2 2/3 c hot water on medium speed until dough is very thick and sticky. Let rest uncovered for 15 min. When beans are cooled, pour into medium bowl and mix with cheese; set aside. Combine remaining 1/3 c oil and 1 c warm water in a medium bowl. Dip both hands in this mixture and rub together to coat. This will prevent dough sticking to your hands and hydrate it at the same time. Divide dough into 12 balls (~1/4 c each), keeping them covered with a damp towel so they don't dry out. With 1 ball in the palm of your hand, use thumb of opposite hand to create an indentation in the center. Pinch sides to create a well for the filling. Fill with 2 tbsp (1/8 c) bean mixture. Pingh dough around filling to enclose, then gently flatten to 4 1/2-5" disk, dipping your hands in the oil-water mixture as needed. It's ok if some filling is poking out. Repeate with remaining dough and filling (you may have extra filling). Cook pupusa in a large cast iron skillet or griddle over medium heat until center slightly puffs up and pupusa is browned in spots, 3-4 min per side. If filling leaks out, scrape off pan after pupsa has cooked. Serve with Curtido and salsa roja.

Curtido
1/2 large head of red cabbage, thinly sliced
3 medium carrots, shredded on the large holes of box grater
1/2 large white onion, thinly sliced
2 serrano chiles, stems removed, thinly sliced
1 garlic clove, grated
2 tsp dried oregano (Mexican)
5 tsp kosher salt
1/4 c olive oil
1/4 c (or more) apple cider vinegar

Toss cabbage, carrots, onion, chiles, garlic, oregano, and salt in a large bowl. Let site 30 min to wilt cabbage. Transfer to an airtight container and press firmly down on cabbage to release juices; liquid should be at or above level of vegetables. Seal and let sit at room temp at least 24 hrs. If serving after 24 hrs, toss with oil and vinegar and season with salt, if needed. If serving after 48 hrs, it may not need vinegar; toss with oil, then taste and season with salt and vinegar if needed. Chill after 5 days.

Salsa Roja
5 ripe medium tomatoes, quartered
1/2 medium white onion, coarsely chopped
2 serrano chiles, coarsely chopped
1 garlic clove
5 tsp chicken bouillon powder (optional)
2 tbsp olive oil

Puree everything but the oil in a blender until smooth. Heat oil in a large skillet over medium. Carefully pour tomato mixture into pan; it will spit and bubble. Cook salsa, stirring occasionally, until thick and darker in color, 20-30 min. Let cool and serve at room temp or chilled.
