Quiche Lorraine

Crust:
2 cu ap flour + more for dusting
½ tsp salt
½ tsp granulated sugar
1 stick unsalted butter, cubed and chilled
½ c ice-cold water

In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, salt and sugar. Using your fingers, work the butter into the flour mixture until pea-sized pieces form. Add the water and continue to knead until a dough forms. Cover the dough with plastic wrap and let rest in the refrigerator for 30 min.

Filling:
8 oz thick-cut bacon, cut into ½" pieces
2 medium shallots, thinly sliced
2 thyme sprigs + 1 tsp minced leaves, divided
½ yellow onion, thinly sliced
1 c finely grated Gruyère cheese, divided
2 c heavy cream
8 eggs
¼ c finely grated Parmesan
2 tbsp minced chives
2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp lemon zest
Pinch cayenne pepper

In a 12" skillet, heat the bacon over medium heat and cook until the fat has rendered and the bacon is golden, 13-15 min. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the bacon to a medium bowl. Remove all but 2 tbsp of rendered bacon fat from the pan, reserving for another use. Add the shallots, 2 thyme sprigs and onions to the pan, and cook until the onions have softened, 4-5 min, scraping up any fond that has formed on the bottom of the pan. Transfer the softened onions to the bowl with the bacon, discarding the thyme sprigs. Let cool completely. While bacon is cooling, p reheat oven to 350°. On a lightly floured work surface, roll out the pie dough into a 12" round, then fit into a 9" pie tin. Fold any overhang underneath itself to have an even crust you can crimp. Place a sheet of parchment over the crust and fill with baking beans. Bake until the edges begin to get a touch of color, 20 min. Remove the beans and parchment, then continue to bake until lightly golden, another 15-20 min. Remove from the oven and immediately sprinkle with ½ c of the grated Gruyère. Let the crust cool as the cheese melts. Reduce the oven to 325°. In a blender, purée the cream and eggs until smooth. Transfer to the bowl with the cooled bacon, then add the remaining filling ingredients and stir to combine. Place the cooled crust on a sheet pan and pour in the filling. Bake until the eggs are set, 1 hr (+/- 10 min). Remove and let cool completely before slicing and serving.

