Quinrizo  vegan, gf

Annatto Oil:
1/4 c annatto seeds
3/4 c evoo

Put seeds in a heavy plastic resealable bag and crush with a rolling pin (or use a spice grinder, coarsely grind). Add the oil in a small saucepan. Warm the oil over low heat for 10 min. Turn off the heat and let sit for 30 min. Strain the oil into a clean glass jar using a fine mesh strainer or cheesecloth. Store in refrigerator.

1 c quinoa
1 3/4 c low sodium vegetable stock or filtered water

Add quinoa and broth to a medium saucepan with a lid, coer, and bring to a boil. Turn down the heat to low and cook for 15 min. Let sit with the lid on at least 10 min, then fluff with a fork. Quinoa should be on the dry side.


Sauce:
1 tomato
1/2 onion
3 cloves garlic
1 tbsp apple cider vinegar
1 1/2 tsp cumin
1 tsp smoked paprika
1 tsp dried oregano
1 fresh poblano pepper
1 whole sweet dried chili (costeno, guajillo, or choricero) stem and seeds removed
1-2 small hot dried chilies (arbol or cascabel) stems and seeds removed
1 whole rich fruity dried chili (ancho, mulatto, negro, or pasilla) stems and seeds removed
2 tbsp raisins
1 whole chipotle chili in adobo sauce + 2 tbsp sauce from can
1 tsp toasted and ground coriander seeds

Broil or roast poblano, blistering the skin (~6 min in oven). Wrap in foil until cool enough to handle & peel, discaring seeds and skin. Place dried chilies on a microwave safe plate and nuke until toasted, ~30 s. Transfer to a glass liquid measuring cup. Add raisins, chipotle and it's juice, and water.  Cover with plastic wrap and nuke until simmering, ~1 1/2 min. Remove from microwave and let stand for 2 min. Transfer to a blender and puree until completely smooth. Heat up some oil in a saute pan over medium high heat. Add onions and poblanos, season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring often, until softened, ~4 min. Add onion, garlic, and spices, stirring until fragrant, ~1 min. Add mixture to blender & puree. Add chili mixture to same blender, and puree. Core and quarter tomato, removing snot, add to blender along with vinegar; blend until completely smooth.

3 tbsp annatto oil

Add the cooked quinoa to a large mixing bowl, then pour over the annatto oil and stir until completely coated. Add the sauce from the blender and mix completely. Cover and refrigerate at least 30 min, preferrably overnight.

When ready to use, heat 1 tbsp oil in a large nonstick skillet or cast iron pan on medium heat. Add the quinrizo and cook for 15 min, stirring every few min to keep it from sticking. Once cooked, you can use the mixture as chorizo.


Notes: found the sauce and oil far exceeded the amount of quinoa, so saved it for later use. Used annatto oil for final "bloom"
