Classic Ragu alla Bolognese

1/3 c dried porcini mushrooms
4 tbsp evoo
4 oz pancetta, finely diced (~3/4 c)
1 medium yellow onion, finely diced (~1 c)
1 medium carrot, peeled and finely diced (~1/2 c)
1 rib celery, finely diced (~1/2 c)
kosher salt to taste
1 1/2 lbs skirt steak, patted dry and cut into 1/4" cubes
4 oz lean pork shoulder, ground
4 sage leaves
2 bay leaves
2 sprigs fresh thyme
1 c dry white wine
3 tbsp double concentrated italian tomato paste
2 c beef or chicken stock
1 1/2 c whole milk
1/4 lb (~3 small) parmesan rinds
pinch nutmeg
tagliatelle pasta
freshly grated parmigiano reggiano cheese for serving

Place the porcini in a bowl and cover with 1/2 c boiling water. Allow to sit for 15 min to rehydrate. Remove the porcini, reserving the water and finely chop. Set both aside. In a large heavy bottomed pot over medium heat, add 2 tbsp of the oil. Add the pancetta and cook, stirring until the fat begins to render out, 3-4 min. Add the vegetables and season with salt. Cook, stirring often, until the vegetables begin to soften, 6-8 min. Add the mushrooms and continue to cook until all of the vegetables are very soft and all the liquid has evaporated, 10-12 min. Transfer the mixture to a bowl and set aside. Return the pot to the stove over medium high heat and add remaining oil. Working in 2 batches, brown the skirt steak, 4-5 min for each batch. Remove the beef using a slotted spoon and transfer to a plate. Add the ground pork to the pot, and using a wooden spoon, break the port into small clumps. Season with salt and brown, 2-3 min. Place the sage, bay leaves, and thym in the center of a triple layer of cheesecloth. Gather up the edges and tie using kitchen twine to for a bouqet garni. Reduce the heat to medium and return browned beef and reserved vegetable mixture to the pot with the bouquet garni and cook, stirring often, until most of the liquid has evaporated, 4-5 min. Deglaze the pan with the wine; scrape the bottom of the pan using a wooden spoon. Reduce until all the liquid has evaporated and the contents have taken on a rich chetnut color, 10-12 min. Add the tomato paste and cook for 3-4 min. Add 1 1/2 c of the stock and 1/2 c of milk and reduce by half, 12-15 min. Add the parmesan rinds, nutmeg, and remaining stock and milk, skimming any fat that rises to the surface, and continue cooking until the flavors have come together and the sauce has become very thick, 35-45 min. Season with salt and allow to cool. Remove and discard the bouquet garni. The sauce can be made up to 3 days ahead. Cover and chill. Toss with tagliatelle or pasta of choice and top with fresh grated parmigiano reggiano before serving.

Note: freezing the skirt steak for 15 min before cutting makes it easier to handle
