First Class Railway Curry
  --Asma Khan

4 tbsp vegetable oil
4cm (1 1/2 ") cinnamon quill (stick)
3  cloves
3 cardamom pods 
1 Indian bay leaf
1 dried red chilli
1kg (2lb 4oz) stewing beef/ mutton/ lamb shanks
2 small onions, finely chopped, then crushed to a paste
4 garlic cloves, crushed to a paste
1 tbsp fresh ginger paste
1/2 tsp Pragati Turmeric
1 1/2 tsp ground coriander
1 1/2 tsp ground cumin
1 tomato, diced
2 tsp salt 
4 tbsp malt vinegar, or more to taste
700ml (scant 1 1/4 pints/ 2 3/4 c) water
2 large potatoes, peeled and quartered
400ml (14fl oz) canned thick coconut milk
1 whole green chilli optional, to garnish

In a heavy-based pan that has a lid, heat the oil over a medium to high heat. Add the cassia bark, cloves, cardamom pods, bay leaf, and dried red chilli. Stir until the spices and the chilli have darkened in color, then use a slotted spoon to remove the spices to a plate and set aside. In the same chilli-infused oil, fry the meat pieces until brown on all sides. Do not allow the meat to cook through; the aim is just to seal the meat. Remove the meat from the pan and set aside, leaving as much of the oil in the pan as possible. Add the onions, garlic and ginger pastes to the pan. Take care as the pastes will splutter in the hot oil. Next, add the ground spices followed by the diced tomato and cook for 2 min before returning the whole fried spices and sealed meat to the pan. Add the salt, vinegar, and measured water, and bring to a boil. After 1 min, cover the pan with the lid and reduce to a simmer. After ~1 hr, when the meat is three-quarters cooked (it should be soft, but not falling apart, and the edges should be curled), add the potatoes and stir to coat with the gravy. Stir at regular intervals to ensure the potatoes are cooking evenly – do not shake them too much as they may break. Once the meat and potatoes are cooked, remove the lid and reduce any remaining liquid until the oil seeps to the edges of the pan. Usually, I add some vinegar at this stage too – it depends on whether the vinegar aroma was lost in the cooking process. Add the coconut milk and taste for seasoning before serving.

