Rainbow Cookie Ice Cream
  - Stephen Collucci
  
2 c whole milk
2 c heavy cream
1/3 c honey
1/2 c sugar
9 egg yolks
1 tsp almon extract
1/2 tsp vanilla
1/2 tsp salt
2 c chopped rainbow cookies
1/2 c raspberry jam

In a medium saucepan, combine the milk, cream and honey. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium-high heat. Meanwhile, whisk together the sugar and the egg yolks until the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is pale yellow, 30s-1m. Once the milk is boiling, carefully stream the liquid into the egg mixture, whisking constantly to prevent curdling. Add the extracts and salt. Chill the ice cream base over an ice bath, whisking constantly, 5 min, then transfer to a sealable container and refrigerate overnight. Make sure your ice cream maker base is in the freezer overnight while the base chills. The next day, freeze the mixture in an ice cream machine according to manufacturer's instructions, then fold the rainbow cookies and raspberry jam into the ice cream to create swirls. Cover with plastic wrap and return to the freezer until set, 3 to 4 hrs, then scoop and serve.


Italian Rainbow Cookies

1 c sugar
8 oz can almond paste
3 sticks unsalted butter, softened and divided
4 eggs, separated
1/4 c milk
2 tsp almond extract
2 c ap flour
1/4 tsp red food coloring
1/4 tsp green food coloring
1/2 c raspberry jam, divided
1 1/2 c semisweet chocolate chips, melted

Preheat the oven to 325° and grease three 9x13" quarter sheet pans with cooking spray, then line each with parchment. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the sugar, almond paste and 1 stick of the butter. Mix until smooth and lump free, being sure to break down the almond paste as best you can. Add the remaining 2 sticks of butter and continue to mix until smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed. Gradually add the egg yolks, followed by the milk and almond extract. Mix until combined. Add the flour and slowly mix until combined, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed. Once the flour is combined, set aside. In a separate bowl, whip the egg whites until they form stiff, fluffy peaks. Fold the whipped egg whites into the flour mixture to form a smooth batter, then divide equally between 3 bowls. Stir the red food coloring into the first bowl of batter until evenly pink colored, then stir the green color into the second bowl of batter until evenly green colored, leaving the third bowl untouched. Keeping the batters separate, evenly spread them into the greased and parchment-lined quarter sheet pans, and bake, rotating halfway through, until set, 10-12 min. Then let cool completely. Once cooled, spread half of the jam to cover the surface of the green cake and place the undyed layer, making sure the parchment is discarded, directly on top, sandwiching the jam. Repeat this step by spreading the remaining jam on top of the undyed layer and placing the pink layer directly on top of it, discarding the parchment. Cover the cake with plastic wrap and top with another sheet pan. Weigh down the layers with heavy plates or cans, and refrigerate for at least 4 hr, or overnight. Remove the weights and plastic wrap. Spread half of the melted chocolate over the top of the cake and refrigerate until set, 30 min. Once solid, flip the cake onto a cutting board, discarding the bottom layer of parchment, and spread the remaining melted chocolate in a even layer over the surface. Return to the refrigerator and chill until set, 30 min. Once set, trim the cake into a 7½-by-10½" rectangle, reserving all trim for snacking or rainbow cookie ice cream. Cut the cake into 1½" squares, then serve.
