Raviolo Di Ricotta

Pasta:
450 g 00 flour (3.5 c)
325 g egg yolk (~ 18 egg yolks)
1/2 tsp kosher salt

Combine the salt and the flour. On a large flat surface, form a well with the flour. Pour the yolks into the center of the well. With a fork slowly stir in the flour little by little until it becomes too difficult to continue with a fork. At this point, begin using your hands to knead the dough and incorporated the remaining flour. Continue to knead the dough for 5 min. When the dough is properly kneaded it will slowly bounce back into its shape when indented with your finger. Tightly wrap the ball of dough with plastic wrap and allow to rest for 30 min. Once the dough has rested, sheet the dough using a pasta roller to the desired thickness. On most home pasta machines, this is the 2nd or 3rd thinnest setting. Tender dough is key to this dish so it must be thin enough to cook through without overcooking the yolk. Once pasta dough is sheeted, using a knife, cut the dough into 6"x6" squares. For each raviolo, place 1 ricotta ball into the center of the pasta square. Then place one yolk into the center of the ricotta where you created the divot. Using a squeeze bottle or your fingers, very lightly mist the edges of the pasta surrounding the ricotta with water. Carefully place another pasta square on top, gently pressing from the inside out to seal the two sheets of dough while eliminating any aire bubbles. You may break a yolk, but that's no reason to toss it - it will still taste good. Make sure they are not touching on the pan while being refrigerated.

Filling:
1200g (~6 c) ricotta hung overnight in a cheesecloth and drained
1 tbsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp finely ground black pepper
12 farm egg yolks (whites separated)
6 tbsp unsalted butter
1/2 c grana padano cheese, finely grated

in a mixing bowl, combine the drained ricotta with the salt and pepper. Divide and roll the ricotta into 12 even sized balls. Gently press the ball so that it flattens to be ~1" thick. In the center of the flattened ball, create another divot with your thumb ~1" in diameter. This is where the egg yolk will be placed. Prep a cookie sheet with parchement paper and a sprinkle of semolina flour to hold the ravioli in the refrigerator before cooking them,

Sauce:
Put butter into a sauge pan over medium heat. Gently stir the butter as it begins to melt. After a minute or two, the butter will begin to brown. At this stage, remove it from the heat. 
Meanwhile, place the ravioli into a pot of boiling water for 5 min. Remove the ravioli, making sure to allow all the excess water to drip off the pasta.
Place the pasta on a plate, sprinkle with grana padano, and a generous spoonful of the browned butter.
