Red Sauce (toamto)

Classic
1/4 c olive oil
1 finely chopped medium onion
6 thinly sliced garlic cloves
pinch red pepper flakes
1 basil spri28oz can whole peeled San Marzano tomatoes, crushed by hand
3 tsp red wine vinegar
kosher salt & freshly ground pepper

In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion, garlic, and crushed red pepper flakes, and cook, stirring frequently, until softened, 10-12 min. Add the basil, tomatoes, and vinegar, and bring to a simmer. Lower the heat to medium low and cook, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened, 25 min. Remove the basil sprig and, using an immersion blender, blend the sauce until slightly smooth while retaining some texture. Season with salt and pepper.


All`amatriciana

3 tbsp olive oil
4 oz thinly sliced pancetta, cut into 1/2" pieces
1 finely chopped medium onion
1/2 tsp crushed red pepper flakes
28oz can whole peeled San Marzano tomatoes, crushed by hand
2 tsp red wine vinegar
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper

In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the pancetta and saute until slightly crisp, 3-5 min. Add the onion and crushed red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, until softened, 8 min. Add the tomatoes and the vinegar, and bring to a simmer. Lower the heat to medium low and cook, stirring occasionally, until thickened, 25 min. Season with salt and pepper.

Vodka 

3 tbsp butter
3 tbsp olive oil
1 finely chopped medium onion
6 thinly sliced garlic cloves
pinch crushed red pepper flakes
1 basil sprig
28 oz can whole peeled San Marzano tomatoes, crushed by hand
3 tsp red wine veingar
3 tbsp vodka
1/2 c heavy cream
salt and pepper

In a medium saucepan, melt the butter with the olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion, garlic, and red pepper flakes, and cook, stirring frequently, until softened, 10-12 min. Add the basil, tomatoes, vinegar, and vodka, and bring to a simmer. Lower the heat to medium low and cook, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened, 30 min. Remove the basil sprig and, using an immersion blender, blend the sauce until slightly smooth while retaining some texture. Stir in the heavy cream and season with salt and pepper.
