Red Chile Chicken Tamales
  --America's Test Kitchen

Filling:
4 dried ancho chiles, stemmed, seeded, and torn into 1/2" pieces (1 c)
4 dried New Mexican chiles, stemmed, seeded, and torn into 1/2" pieces (1 c)
3 tbsp vegetable oil
1 large onion, chopped
6 garlic cloves, minced
3/4 tsp ground cumin
3/4 tsp dried oregano
salt and pepper
3 c chicken broth
1 1/4 lbs boneless, skinless, chicken thighs, trimmed
1 1/2 tbsp cider vinegar
sugar

Toast chiles in 12" skillet over medium heat, stirring frequently, until fragrant, 2-6 min, transfer to bowl. Heat oil in now empty skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Add onion and cook until softened, 5-7 min. Stir in garlic, cumin, oregano, 1/2 tsp salt, and toasted chiles and cook for 30 s. Stir in broth and simmer until slightly reduced, ~10 min. Transfer mixture to blender and process until smooth, ~20 s; return to skillet. Season chicken with salt and pepper, nestle into skillet, and bring to simmer over medium heat. Cover, reduce heat to low, and cook until chicken registers 160F, 20-25 min. Transfer chicken to carving board and let cool slightly. Using 2 forks, shred chicken into small pieces. Stir vinegar into sauce and season with satl, pepper, and sugar to taste. Toss shredded chicken with 1 c sauce. Reheat sauce and serve with tamales.

Tamales:
1 c + 2 tbsp quick grits
1 1/2 cups boiling water
1 c (4 oz) + 2 tbsp masa harina
20 large dried corn husks
1 1/2 c frozen corn, thawed
6 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1/2" cubes and softened
6 tbsp lard, softened
1 tbsp sugar
2 1/4 tsp baking powder
3/4 tsp salt

Place grits in medium bowl, whisk in boiling water, and let stand until water is mostly absorbed, ~10 min. Stir in masa harina, cover, and let cool to room temp, ~20 min. Meanwhile, place husks in large bowl, cover with hot water, and let soak until pliable, ~ 30 min. Process masa dough, corn, butter, lard, sugar, baking powder, and salt together in food processor until mixture is light, sticky, and very smooth, ~1 min, scraping down sides as necessary. Remove husks from water and pat dry with dish towel. Working with 1 husk at a time, lay on counter, cupped side up, with long side facing you and wide end on the right side. Spread 1/4 c tamale dough into 4" square over bottom right hand corner, pushing it flush to bottom edge but leaving 1/4" border at wide edge. Mound 2 scant tbsp filling in line across center of dough, parallel to bottom edge. Roll husk away from you and over filling, so that dough surrounds filling and forms cylinder. Fold up tapered end, leaving top open, and transfer seam side down to platter. Fit large pot or dutch oven with steamer basket, removing feet from steamer basket if pot is short. Fill pot with water until it just touches bottom of basket and bring to boil. Gently lay tamales in basket with open ends facing up and seam sides facing out. Cover and steam, checking water level ofent and adding additional water as needed, until tamales easily come free from husks, ~1 hr. Transfer tamales to large platter. Reheat remaining sauce and serve with tamales.


Notes: for a quick filling, combine 12 oz shredded monterey jack cheese and 3 tbsp minced jalapenos. Steamed tamales can be cooeld completely, wrapped individually in plastic wrap, and frozen for up to 3 months. 

