Red Velvet Cheesecake
  --Cook's Country

2x9" red velvet cake rounds
2 c (8 oz) confectioners' sugar
8 tbsp unsalted butter
1 1/2 lb cream cheese, softened
3/4 tsp vanilla
pinch salt
1 1/2 tsp unflavored gelatin
1 1/2 c heavy cream
6 oz white chocolate, chopped
1/2 c (3 1/2 oz) sugar
white chocolate curls

Using serrated knife, split cakes horizontally 1" from bottom. Using fingers, crumble tops into small crumbs; set aside in airtight container. Set 1 remaining cake round in 9" springform pan; reserve second cake round. Using stand mixer fitted with paddle, beat confectioners' sugar and butter on medium high speed until fluffy, ~2 min. Cut 8 oz cream cheese into 4 pieces and add 1 piece at a time, continuing to beat until incorporated, ~30 s. Beat in vanilla and salt. Refrigerate frosting until ready to use. Sprinkle gelatin over 1/2  c heavy cream in small saucepan and let sit until gelatin softens, ~5 min. Cook mixture over low heat until edges are just bubbling. Add white chocolate and continue to cook, stirring constantly, until just melted and smooth. Set aside to cool slightly, ~15 min. Using clean stand mixer fitted with whisk, whip remaining cream on medium high speed to soft peaks, 1-2 min; transfer to medium bowl and set aside. Using now empty mixer fitted with paddle, beat remaining 1 lb cream cheese and sugar on medium high until light and fluffy. 2-3 min. Reduce speed to medium low, add white chocolate mixture, and mix until just combined, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Using rubber spatula, gently fold in whipped cream until combined. Spread filling over cake in pan and smooth into even layer. Place remaining cake round, cut side down, on top. Cover with plasti wrap and refrigerate until set, ~6 hr. Run thin knife between cake and sides of pan; remove sides of pn. Transfer cake to cake stand or plate. Spread frosting in even layer over top and sides of cake. Gently press reserved cake crumbs onto sides of cake/ Place mound of chocolate curls in center of cake. Serve.
