Reina de Saba
  --adapted from Julia Child

Meringue:
3 egg whites
pinch of salt
1 tbsp sugar (15 g)

Preheat oven to 350F. Brush a 9" cake pan with softened butter. To the bowl of a stand mixer, add egg whites and pinch of salt. Whisk on high speed until eggs begin to foam. Sprinkl sugar and continue to whisk on high until stiff peaks form. Transfer to a medium bowl and set aside. Rinse the bowl from the stand mixer.

Cake:
1/2 c unsalted butter (115 g) softened
2/3 c sugar (150 g)
3 egg yolks
4 oz dark chocolate 72% (114 g) melted
2 tbsp brewed coffee (30 g)
1/3 c almond meal (26 g)
1/4 tsp almond extract (1.25 g)
1/2 c cake flour (62 g)

In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat the butter and sugar together on medium speed until light and fluffy, Add the yolks and mix until the batter is light yellow. Add the melted chocolate and coffee, mix just to incorporate. Mix in almond meal and extract. Finally, on low speed, mix in 1/3 of the egg whites to lighten up the batter. Use a rubber spatula to stir in half of the flour. Fold to incorporate. Add another third of the egg whites, and gently fold to incorporate. Add the remaining flour and gently fold to mix. Add remaining egg whites and very gently fold to incorporate. Pour the batter into prepared pan, spreading it our evenly. Bake the cake for 16-20 min. If you want a fudgy texture, the center of the cake should wobble slightly. Otherwise, remove once cake is set all over. Let cake rest in the pan for 10 min before running a knife along the edges. Flip the cake out onto a wire rack to cool completely.

Glaze:
2 oz dark chocolate (57 g)
1/4 c unsalted butter (57 g) room temp
shaved almonds for garnish

Melt the chocolate in a medium bowl in the microwave in 30 s intervals. Use a rubber spatula to stir the chocolate, making sure it's smooth. Add the butter and stir until it melts completely and the glaze is smooth. Place cake on serving plate and pour the glaze over top. Smooth the glaze across the top first, giving time for chocolate to somewhat set before smoothing down the sides. Gently press almonds into sides.

Notes: To make gf, substitute almond flour for cake flour. Coffee can be substituted with rum or water.
Julia adds cream of tartar to her egg whites, and melts the chocolate with rum for both applications of chocolate
