"Healthy" Rice Crispy Treats

#1
2 c gluten-free crispy rice cereal
1/2 c peanut butter (can sub for almond/cashew)
1/2 c sticky sweetener of choice- I've used brown rice syrup (best), honey and maple syrup (least sticky)

Line a baking tray with baking paper and set aside. In a large mixing bowl, add your crispy rice cereal and set aside. Stovetop or in the microwave, melt your nut butter with your sticky sweetener and then pour the mixture into the crispy rice cereal and mix well. If you used brown rice syrup, this should be perfect. If you used honey or maple, you may need to add a dash more to make them stick together. Pour mixture into the lined baking tray and press firmly into place. Refrigerate for at least 30 min to firm up.

#2
10 oz box brown rice krispies
1¾ c brown rice syrup
¾ c peanut butter (almond butter or non nut butter)
½ c semi-sweet or non-dairy chocolate chips

Pour the rice cereal in a large bowl. Heat the syrup with a pinch of salt in a saucepan over low heat. When the rice syrup liquifies, add the peanut butter and stir well until combined. Pour over the rice cereal. Mix well. Once thoroughly cooled , stir in the chocolate chips. Pour the mixture into a 8x8" or 9x13" baking dish. Let cool for 1 hr before cutting into bars.

#3
2/3 c brown rice syrup*
1/4 c coconut oil
1 tsp vanilla extract
1/4 tsp sea salt
4 c brown rice crisp cereal

Combine the coconut oil and brown rice syrup in a saucepan over medium heat, and bring the mixture to a rolling boil. Boil for one minute, then remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla extract and salt. Pour the cereal into a large mixing bowl and stir in the boiled syrup mixture until the cereal is well-coated. Line a 9" baking sheet with parchment paper to prevent sticking, then spread the coated cereal in the pan. Use an additional piece of parchment paper over the top of the cereal, to keep your hands from getting sticky, then press HARD to pack the cereal tightly into the bottom of the pan. The harder you press, the better. Place the bars into the freezer to cool for 45 min, then remove the pan and bring the bars to room temperature. Slice and serve!

*can use coconut nectar instead, just need 1/2 c then.
