Roasted Garlic Soup with Bone Broth
  --Christina Lecki

Broth:
5-8 lb beef bones
1 onion, cut into quarters
10 garlic cloves, smashed and peeled
3 thyme sprigs
2 celery stalks
1 carrot, whole
5 bay leaves
2 tsp black peppercorns

On a sheet pan, gently roast the bones in a 500F oven until brown. Fill a medium-size stockpot with cold water about 2" above the bones. Bring to a boil and skim any foam that comes to the surface. Lower to a simmer on a very low setting so that the liquid is barely bubbling. After 3 hrs, add the onion, garlic, thyme, celery, carrot, bay leaves and black peppercorns. Cook for another 3 hrs. 

Soup:
1 head garlic, cut in half
1 c olive oil
3 onions, peeled and sliced thin
1 tbsp kosher salt
2 qt stock
1 piece star anise
2 bay leaves
1¼ c kefir or yogurt 
2 c stale bread, cut into small-to-medium chunks (a crusty sourdough is a great choice, but any leftover bread will do)
1 c Parmesan, grated
Black pepper, to taste
Olive oil, to taste
fresh herbs like parsley, marjoram, or thyme

Preheat (lower) oven to 350F, place the head of garlic in a small saucepan and cover the garlic with the olive oil. Roast the garlic in oil for roughly 30-40 min, or until golden brown. Remove the garlic from the oil and reserve both. In a heavy-bottom large saucepan over medium heat, add the sliced onions, oil used from the roast garlic, kosher salt and cook until caramelized and tender, 15-20 min. Once the onions are caramelized, pour 8 c of the stock over the onions with the star anise and bay leaves. Squeeze the garlic out of the roast head and add to the saucepan as well. Bring to a boil and simmer for 20 min on low. Remove the bay leaves and star anise. Add the kefir or yogurt and allow it to boil again for just a few minutes, then purée until very smooth. While the soup is still hot, add the bread and stir to incorporate. Finish with grated Parmesan, fresh herbs and spicy greens; a generous drizzle of olive oil; and black pepper, to taste. If you're not going to eat the soup immediately, cool it down, then add the bread and garnishes when you are ready to serve. 
