Roasted Mushroom Pizza

Dough:
2 1/2 c 00 flour
2 1/4 c ap flour + more for dusting
2 c water
2 tbsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp yeast

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook, combine all the ingredients. Mix until a smooth, elastic dough forms, then transfer to a dusted bowl and cover with a towel. Place in a warm spot until doubled in size, ~2 hrs. Divide the dough into 4 balls. then place the balls on a dusted plate and cover with a towel, place in a warm spot to proof again, 1 hr. 

Mushrooms:
12 oz oyster mushrooms, roughly torn
2 tbsp olive oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 yellow onion, finely chopped
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

Preheat the oven to 400F. On a baking sheet, toss the mushrooms with the olive oil, garlic, onion, salt, and pepper. Roast, stirring halfway through, until tender and golden brown, 20 min. Set aside. Place a pizza stone in the oven and increase the temp to 500F.

Herb Puree:
1 c basil leaves
1 c parsley leaves
1 c arugula
1/2 c olive oil
1 tsp ground coriander
1/2 tsp mustard seeds
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and prepare an ice bath. Boil the basil, parsley, and arugula for 30 s, then transfer to the ice bath until cool, 1 min. Squeeze the greens to release any excess liquid, then transfer to a blender with the remaining ingredients. Puree until smooth, then set aside.

Garlic Butter:
6 tbsp unsalted butter
2 garlic cloves, finely grated

In a small saucepan, bring the butter and garlic to a simmer. Cook until fragrant, 1-2 min. Remove from the heat and set aside.

Topping:
1 lb raclette, sliced

On a lightly floured surface, roll out 1 ball of dough in a 10" circle. Spread a quarter of the herb puree over the dough and top with 1/4 of the mushrooms and raclette. Repeat with the remaining dough balls. Transfer to the stone and bake, one at a time, until golden brown, 8-10 min. Remove from the oven and place on a cutting board. Brush the crust with the garlic butter, slice and serve.
