Roast Porcelet with Sausage and Apples

Porcelet:
1 lb ground pork
1/2 honeycrisp apple, cored and coarsley grated
1 tbsp kosher salt + more to taste
1 tbsp minced sage
1 tbsp minced thyme
1 tsp minced fresh ginger
1 tsp granulated sugar
pinch cinnamon
pinch ground white pepper
8-9 lb porcelet, ribs removed and loin still attached*
3 tbsp olive oil

Preheat oven to 350F. In a medium bowl, mix the ground pork, apples, salt, sage, thyme, ginger, sugar, cinnamon, and white pepper thoroughly to incorporate. On a cutting board, lay out the porcelet, skin side down. Remove the ribs and any bones, leaving you with the pork belly and attached loin. Using a sharp knife, trim the pork bell, leaving 3/4" of meat attached to the skin. Season the inside of the belly with salt, then spread the ground pork mixture along the center of the belly above the loin. Starting from the loin, roll the porcelet tightly into a log, then tie with butcher's twine into a roast. In a roasting pan, heat the olive oil over medium high heat. Sear the porcelet roast, turning as needed, until golden brown, 12-15 min. Cook in the oven until a thermometer inserted through one of the ends reads 140F, 1 hr 15 min. Make sure you are getting a read from the ground pork in the center.

Braised Cabbage:
3 tbsp olive oil
1 large head red cabbage, quartered, cored and thinly sliced
1 c red wine
1/3 c red wine vinegar
3 tbsp granulated sugar
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper to taste

In a large pot or dutch oven, heat the oil over medium high heat. Add the cabbage and cook, stirring constantly, until wilted, 3-4 min. Add the wine, vinegar, sugar, salt, and pepper, and bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat to medium low and cook, covered, until the cabbage is tender but still has a firmness to it, 12-15 min. Set aside until ready to reheat for plating.

Apples & Turnips:
2 tbsp olive oil, divided
2 bunches (2lbs) hakurei turnips, trimmed and halved
3 honeycrisp apples, cored and cut into 3/4" wedges
2 tbsp sage leaves, thinly sliced
2 tbsp unsalted butter
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

In a large skillet, heat 1 tbsp of oil over medium high heat. Add the turnips and cook, flipping as needed, until the turnips are golden brown and tender, 8-10 min. Transfer to a sheet pan. To the skillet, add the remaning tbsp of oil over medium high heat. Add the apples and cook, turning as needed until golden brown and tender, 4-5 min. Transfer to the sheet pan with the turnips. Toss them together with the sage leaves and butter, then season with salt and pepper. Set aside, then flash heat the sheet pan in the oven for 5 min before you are ready to plate.

Sauce:
1 tbsp whole grain mustard
1 tbsp dijon mustard
kosher salt to taste
apple butter, for serving

Transfer the cooked porcelet to a cutting board and tent with foil; let rest for 10 min. Transfer the pan drippings to a measuring cup to allow the fat to separate. Pour off most of the fat, so you are left with 1/2 c pan drippings. Whisk in the mustards and season with salt. As you carve the roast into 1" slices, add any drippings on the board to the sauce, adjusting the seasoning as needed.
Fan out the pork slices on a serving platter over the braised cabbage and alongside the roast apples and turnips, apple butter, and remaining sauce, then serve.


*If you can't find porcelet, recreate the cut yourself. 7 lb piece of skin on pork belly with the ribs attached, remove the ribs and enough belly so you only have 3/4" of eat over the skin (this will be ~3 1/2lbs). Place a 1lb pork tenderloin along the bottom of the bell and continue following the recipe by adding the sausage, rolling and tying.
