Rose Champagne Macarons

Shells:
2 1/3 c almond flour
2 c confectioners' sugar
1/4 tsp rose water
8 drops food color
6 egg whites, divided
1 c granulated sugar
3 tbsp water

Preheat oven to 285F and line 3 baking sheets with silicone mats. In a large bowl, combine the almond flour, confectioners' sugar, rose water, red food coloring, and 3 egg whites. Using a rubber spatula, mix until a smooth paste is formed. In a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat the remaining egg whites until foamy. In a small saucepan, heat the granulated sugar and water over medium high heat until it reaches 234F according to an instant-read thermometer, 2 min. With the stand mixer motor running, slowly stream in the syrup. Then increase the speed to medium high and beat the egg mixture until stiff peaks have formed and the meringue is cool to the touch. Fold 1/3 of the meringue into the flour mixture until smooth, then continue folding in the remaining meringue, 1/3 at a time. Transfer to a piping bag fitted with a 5/8" round pastry tip. Pipe 2" shells (~2 tbsp per shell) 2" apart from one another on the prepared baking sheets. Should end up with 48 shells. Slam the trays on a sturdy work surface to spread the batter and smooth the shells. Let the shells dry at room temp until a skin has formed and they are no longer tacky to the touch, 30-45 min. Bake the macarons, rotating the trays halfway through, until they have risen  and tghe shells are matte in appearance, 20-25 min. Let cool completely before releasing the shells from the trays.

Jelly:
2/3 c granulated sugar
1/2 c champagne
1 tsp powdered fruit pectin

In a small saucepan, heat the sugar and champagne over medium high heat. Bring to a boil and cook until the sugar is dissolved, 1-2 min. Sprinkle in the pectin and once hydrated (no lonegr white in appearance), whisk to incorporate. Remove from the heat and let cool completely.

Buttercream:
1 1/2 c confectioners' sugar
3 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 tbsp rose water
1/2 tsp kosher salt
4 drops red food coloring

In the bowl of a stand mixer, cream the confectioners' sugar and the butter until light and fluffy, then beat in the remaining ingredients until smooth. Transfer to a piping bag fitted with a 3/8" round pastry tip. 

Pipe a circle of buttercream around the outer edges of half of the shells. Spoon 1 tsp of jelly in the center of the buttercream and top each with another shell. Refrigerate for 15 min to firm the buttercream.
