Rye Spaetzle with Asparagus and Gruyere

Spaetzle
2 c ap flour
1 c rye flour
1 tsp kosher salt + more to taste
4 eggs
1 c + 2 tbsp whole milk
2 tbsp cream fraiche

In a large bowl, whisk together the flours and salt. Whisk in the eggs until incorporated, then slowly pour in the milk, whisking constantly, until a smooth batter comes together. Cover with plastic wrap and let rest at room temp for 30 min.

Rye Crumble:
4 slices (2oz) rye bread
3 tbsp olive oil
1 garlic clove, grated
1 tsp rosemary, finely chopped
kosher salt to taste

Preheat oven to 375F. Spread out the rye bread on a baking sheet and bake, flipping once, until dry, 5 min per side. Let cool completely, then transfer to a food processor with the remaining ingredients. Pulse into coarse bread crumbs and set aside.

Dandelion Salad
1 c (2oz) dandelion greens, roughly torn
1 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp lemon juice
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

In a medium bowl, toss the dandelion greens with the olive oil and lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper, then set aside.

Assembly
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1/2 bunch (8oz) pencil asparagus, trimmed and cut into 3" pieces
1 c grated gruyere cheese
1 c fresh peas
2 tbsp minced chives
2 tbsp roughly chopped parsley
2 tsp lemon zest
kosher salt, freshly ground pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste


Bring a large pot of water to a boil and season with salt. Using a spaetle maker, press the batter through the holes into the water. Cook until the spaeztle float and are tender, 2-3 min. Drain, reserving 1 c of the cooking liquid. Toss the hot spaeztle with the creme fraiche to coat. In a 12" skillet, melt the butter over medium high heat. Add the asparagus and cook until tender and golden, 3-4 min. Add the reserved spaetzle and cooking liquid, along with the grated cheese and peas. Cook, tossing constantly, until a thick sauce coats the spaetzle, 2 min. Remove from the heat and stir in the chives, parsley, and lemon zest. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Top with the dandelion greens and rye crumble when serving.


Notes:
Note: If you don't have a spaetzle maker, you can use a colander with large holes, pressing with a rubber spatula to drop the batter into the water.
