Samoas
  --Tieghan Gerard, half baked harvest 

Cookies:
1 stick (1/2 c) salted butter, at room temperature
1/4 c real maple syrup (or granulated sugar)
1 tsp vanilla 
1 3/4 c whole wheat flour
1/4 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp kosher salt

Preheat the oven to 350F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. In a large bowl, cream together the butter, maple syrup, and vanilla until light and fluffy, 3-5 min. Add the flour, baking powder, and salt, beat until combined and the dough begins to form a ball. If the dough is crumbly, add 1 tbsp water until the dough comes together. Roll out the dough to 1/4" thickness. Make sure you're using enough flour or your dough will stick. Cut the cookies using a 3" circle cookie cutter. Using a 1" circle cookie cutter, cut out the center of each cookie. Transfer the cookies to the prepared baking sheet. Roll out the leftover scraps, and repeat until all the dough has been used. Bake the cookies for 10-12 min or until lightly golden. Cool on the baking sheet 5 min, then transfer to a wire cooling rack. 

Topping:
3/4 c real maple syrup
1/2 c canned full fat coconut cream using only the coconut cream, no water
1 tbsp creamy tahini, almond, or cashew butter
2 1/2 c shredded unsweetened or sweetened coconut, toasted
12 oz dark chocolate, chopped
flaky sea salt (optional)

In a medium pot, combine maple syrup and the coconut cream and bring to a boil over high heat. Boil 5-8 min or until thickened to a caramel-like sauce. Remove from the heat and stir in the tahini. Let the mix cool slightly, then stir in the toasted coconut. Press 1 tbsp of the coconut mixture onto each cookie. Place the cookies in the freezer for 15-20 min to chill, this will make dipping them in chocolate easier. Melt the chocolate. Dip the bottoms of the cookies in the chocolate and return to the parchment lined baking sheet. Use a fork to drizzle the tops with chocolate, return to the freezer to let the chocolate set up, ~10 min. Keep stored in the fridge or at room temperature for up to 1 week.


