Scalloped Potatoes
  --Linley Richter

4–5 lbs. Yukon gold potatoes, rinse
4 tbsp olive oil, separated
2 tsp minced garlic
1/2 tsp salt, separated
1/2 medium white onion, minced
1/3 c white whole wheat flour
2 c 2% milk
1.5 c shredded cheddar cheese
1/4 c broth (we used vegetable)
1 tsp garlic powder
1/2 c nonfat Greek yogurt
1 c shredded parmesan cheese

First, preheat oven to 375F and grease a 9×13" casserole dish with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside. Next, use a mandolin to slice all of the potatoes into 1/8" thick rounds. We used size 2.0 on our mandolin. Prepare the cheese sauce by heating a medium saucepan over medium/high heat. Add one tbsp of olive oil. When olive oil is fragrant, add the onion and 1/4 tsp salt to the saucepan and sauté for 3 min. Add minced garlic and sauté for another 2-3 min or until the onion begins to brown. Add the last three tbsp of olive oil to the pan and let it heat for 30 s. Next, add the flour to the saucepan and whisk the oil, onion, garlic, and flour together until it turns into a paste. While continuing to whisk, slowly pour the milk into the saucepan. Continue to whisk the milk over medium heat until the milk begins to thicken. Remove from heat and then sprinkle the cheddar cheese into the saucepan and whisk them together until the cheese melts. Lastly, add the vegetable broth, garlic powder, and Greek Yogurt to the sauce and whisk until combined. Assemble the scalloped potatoes by scooping 1/2 cup of the cheese sauce into the bottom of the casserole dish and spread it around. Create 3 rows of the sliced potatoes, tightly packing them together. With a 9×13" casserole dish, you should be able to fit 4-5 lbs. worth of potatoes. Carefully, pour the cheese sauce on top of the potatoes working the cheese sauce in between each potato round. You can use a knife or fork for this, but it’s important to try and get the cheese in between the potatoes and on top. Cover the scalloped potatoes and bake them at 375ºF for 30 min. Remove from the oven, scrape the sides and bake (covered) for an additional 15 min. Finally, remove the casserole from the oven one last time and sprinkle the parmesan cheese over the top of the potatoes. Turn the heat to 450F and place the casserole dish, uncovered, back in the oven for 5 min or until the parmesan cheese starts to brown. Let potatoes rest for at least 5 min before serving. 

