Shaken Beef with Pasta
  --Vy Tran
  
Beef:
1/4 c Maggi Seasoning + more as needed
2 tbsp oyster sauce
2 tsbp packed dark brown sugar
1 tbsp coarsely chopped garlic (~2 cloves)
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper, plus more as needed
1 1/2 lb (1"-thick) boneless New York or ribeye steaks (~2)

Whisk Maggi Seasoning, oyster sauce, dark brown sugar, garlic, and black pepper together in a large bowl until combined. Trim steaks of any large pieces of fat and cut into 1" cubes. Add to the marinade and toss to combine. Let sit at room temp for 30 min.

Sir-fry:
8 oz dried penne pasta
3 tbsp vegetable oil, divided
1/2 medium green bell pepper, diced (~1/2 c)
1/2 medium red bell pepper, diced (~1/2 c)
1/4 medium red onion, thinly sliced (~1/3 c)
2 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp coarsely chopped garlic (~4 cloves)
2 tbsp fresh cilantro leaves (~2 sprigs)
Sriracha hot sauce, for serving

Bring a medium pot of heavily salted water to a boil over medium-high heat. Add pasta and cook according to package directions until just tender. Drain in a colander and run under cold water until cool. Leave in the colander to drain well. Heat 1 tbsp of the vegetable oil in a 12" nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering but not smoking. Shaking off the excess marinade back into the bowl, add half of the beef in a single layer. Sear until browned on a few sides, 3-4 min. Don't stir the beef too much and let it sear and brown before tossing and shaking it in the pan. Transfer to a large plate. Add 1 tbsp of the vegetable oil to the skillet and repeat searing the remaining beef; reserve the remaining marinade in the bowl. Transfer the beef to the plate. Reduce the heat to medium. Add the remaining 1 tbsp vegetable oil, green bell pepper, red bell pepper, and red onion. Stir-fry until tender and beginning to brown, 3-4 min. Transfer to the plate with the beef. Add unsalted butter and garlic to the skillet. Cook until the butter is melted and the garlic is fragrant, 1-2 min. Stir in the reserved marinade and bring to a simmer. Add the pasta and toss until warmed through. Return the beef, vegetables, and accumulated juices on the plate to the skillet and toss until warmed through. Taste and season with more Maggi as needed. If it’s too salty, stir in 1 tbsp water. Garnish with fresh cilantro leaves and more freshly ground black pepper. Serve with Sriracha hot sauce if desired.


Notes: can use any short pasta with ridges, can swap mini sweet peppers for bell peppers, can use white or yellow onion, or even shallots
