Wine Braised Lamb Shepard's Pie

Lamb:
1/4 c olive oil
4 large (4lbs) lamb shanks
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
4 celery stalks, chopped
2 large carrots, peeled and chopped
1 large yellow onion, peeled and chopped
4 thyme sprigs
3 rosemary sprigs
2 bay leaves
1/4 c tomato paste
2 c red wine
1 c chicken stock

Preheat oven to 325F. In a large heavy bottomed pan, heat the olive oil over high heat. Season the lamb shanks with salt and pepper, and add the lamb shanks to the pan. Sear the shanks to a dark brown color all the way around, 12 min. Remove the lamb from the pan and lower the heat to medium. Add the celery, carrots, onion, thyme sprigs, rosemary sprigs, and bay leaves, and cook for 5 min. Add the tomato paste and stir continuously to let the paste caramelize but not burn, 5 min. Pour in the red wine and allow to come to a simmer; cook out all the alcohol but don't let the liquid reduce, 3 min. Add the stock and remove from the heat. Add the lamb back to the pot, cover with a lid, and braise in the oven until fork tender, 3 hrs.

Potatoes:
4 medium (2lbs) potatoes, peeled and cut into 1" cubes
1/2 c heavy cream
4 tbsp unsalted butter
kosher salt to taste

In a 4 quart stock pot, cover the potatoes with water, measuring 2" above the potatoes. Bring the potatoes to a boil and summer until tender, 8-10 min. In a small saucepan, melt the heavy cream and butter. Strain the potatoes and add them to the bowl of a stand mixer; begin whipping the potatoes and strain in the melted cream butter mixture. Season with salt. Transfer to a star tipped piping bag and reserve for later.

Carrots and Peas:
3 tbsp unsalted butter
4 large (1 1/4 lbs) carrots, peeled and cut into 1/2" cubes
1/3 c water  more if necessary
kosher salt to taste
4 c frozen peas
freshly ground black pepper to taste

In a large saute pan over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the carrots and water, and season with salt. Saute the carrots until tender but not mushy, 7-10 min. Add the peas and stir until completely warmed through, 4-5 min. The water should be mostly evaporated and whatever is left will emulsify with the butter in the pan to form a sauce. Season with pepper and salt, to taste.

Slurry:
1 tbsp cornstarch
1 tbsp water

In a small bowl, mix the ingredients until thick enough to coat the back of the spoon.

Preheat oven to 400F. When cool enough to handle, remove the lamb shanks from the pan and separate the meat from the bones, reserving the meat. Using 2 forks, shred the meat, leaving a couple of chunks to the meat isn't too fine; set aside. Strain the cooking liquid and add it back to the pan. Reduce the liquid by a third over medium heat, 6 min. Whisk in the slurry, simmer for 1 min, turn off heat and mix in meat. In the bottom of a 9x13" pan, spread the meat mixture out evenly. Spread the carrots and peas over the meat, then pipe small florets of potato across the entire top of the pie. Bake until the edges are bubbly, 25-30 min. Turn on the broiler and broil the mashed potatoes to a golden brown color, 5-7 min. Remove from the oven and serve
