Braised Short Rib Tagliatelle
  --Quin Liburd

2-3 lbs bone-in beef short ribs, english-cut
Kosher salt, to taste
Freshly ground black pepper, to taste
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp olive oil
1 large shallot, finely chopped
2 tsp garlic paste or minced garlic
2 celery hearts, chopped
2 medium carrots, chopped
1/2 tsp dried oregano
1/2 tsp dried thyme
1 c tomato sauce
14.5 oz canned crushed tomatoes
2 c beef stock
2 tbp worcestershire
1 lb tagliatelle pasta
Parmigiano Reggiano cheese, for topping, optional

Generously season short ribs with salt/pepper and place them onto a plate and transfer short ribs into the refrigerator to marinate for at least 30 min. Preheat oven to 325F. On the stovetop, in a large dutch oven: heat butter/oil over medium-high heat. Sear short ribs on all sides until a nicely browned crust appears, ~3-5 min on all sides. Depending on the size of your ribs, you may need to do this in batches. Once all ribs have browned, transfer them to another plate and set aside. Add in shallot and garlic and let sauté until mixture becomes fragrant, ~2-3 min, while stirring constantly. Then add in celery and carrots and continue cooking for another 2 min, stirring throughout. Season mixture with oregano, thyme, and salt/pepper, to desired taste. Add short ribs back into the pot. Pour in tomato sauce, crushed tomatoes with juices, beef stock, and worcestershire. Gently stir everything together and make sure short ribs are fully submerged under the liquid. Pour in tomato sauce, crushed tomatoes with juices, beef stock, and worcestershire. Gently stir everything together and make sure short ribs are fully submerged under the liquid. Cover dutch oven with lid and carefully transfer into the oven to braise for at least 3 hr. Every hour be sure to check on short ribs and gently stir together for even cooking. Turn the oven off and remove braised short ribs from the pot and transfer to a large baking dish. Ribs should be super tender and may have fallen off the bone. Use two forks to shred short rib meat and discard bones and any fatty pieces on meat. Use a slotted spoon to discard (or save) celery/carrots from braising liquid in the pot. Add shredded beef back into braising liquid, taste mixture and adjust seasoning by adding more salt/pepper, to taste. You can also transfer the pot back into the warm oven while you make the pasta or just set aside. Cook tagliatelle pasta according to package directions in salted water. Drain pasta and immediately add it to the pot with braised short ribs. Gently toss together to fully coat pasta in sauce. Use tongs to serve pasta in bowls and top with freshly grated parmigiano reggiano cheese, if desired and enjoy.
