S'mores Ice Cream Cake

Graham Crackers
1½ c graham flour
2 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tsp baking soda
1 tsp kosher salt
½ c granulated sugar
3 tbsp honey
1 stick unsalted butter, softened

Preheat the oven to 325°. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt. In a large bowl, cream the sugar, honey and butter with an electric hand mixer until light and fluffy. Add the dry ingredients to the wet and mix until incorporated. Using your hands, knead until a smooth dough forms, 2-3 min. Place the dough between 2 sheets of parchment paper and roll it out to ⅙" thick. Transfer to a sheet pan and remove the top sheet of parchment. Bake until golden brown, 20 min, then let cool completely. In a food processor, pulse into coarse crumbs.

Ice Cream Cake
Graham cracker crumbs
4x1.55 oz milk chocolate bars, finely chopped
1 stick unsalted butter, melted
6 c vanilla ice cream, slightly softened
6 c chocolate ice cream, slightly softened

In a medium bowl, toss together the graham cracker crumbs with the chopped chocolate and melted butter to combine. Line a 9x13" baking dish with plastic wrap, allowing the ends to hang off the sides for easy removal. Press the vanilla ice cream into the prepared dish, spreading into an even layer. Press half of the graham cracker mixture in an even layer over the vanilla ice cream. Place the dish in the freezer to set for 1 hr. Once set, spread the chocolate ice cream in an even layer on top of the vanilla ice cream and press the remaining graham cracker mixture on top of that. Freeze for another hour. Using an offset spatula, loosen the edges and invert the cake onto a serving platter. Remove and discard the plastic, then store the cake in the freezer.

Marshmallow
1 tbsp powdered gelatin
½ c water, divided
½ tsp kosher salt
1 egg white
1 c granulated sugar
1 tbsp light corn syrup
½ tsp vanilla extract

In a small bowl, sprinkle the gelatin over ¼ c of the water to bloom, 5 min.  In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat the salt and egg white until stiff peaks form. Meanwhile, in a 2-quart saucepan, combine the remaining ¼ c of water with the sugar, corn syrup and vanilla and heat over medium heat until a candy thermometer reaches 245°, 5-7 min. Stir the bloomed gelatin into the syrup until dissolved. With the motor running, slowly stream the syrup down the side of the stand mixer bowl into the egg white. Continue beating the egg white on high speed until glossy and cool to the touch, 10-15 min.


Spread the marshmallow over the ice cream cake in an even layer and freeze for 1 hr more. Torch the marshmallow to desired doneness then serve.
