Wok fired Spaghetti Arrabiata with Shrimp
  Sarah Grueneberg

Pasta:
1½ c 00 flour + more for dusting
2 eggs

On a clean wooden board or work surface, mound the flour and make a well in the center. Add the eggs and using a fork, gradually fold the flour into the eggs until shaggy. Begin to knead until a dough forms, then form into a ball and wrap in plastic. Refrigerate for at least 1 hr. Cut the dough into 2 pieces and, using a rolling pin, roll 1 piece into an oval. Using a pasta machine, roll the dough out starting at the widest setting and ending with the fourth-thinnest setting (#5). Repeat with the other piece of dough, then dust both with flour and dry on a work surface for 15 min. Cut each piece of dough in half widthwise and cut into spaghetti using the proper attachment for your pasta machine or stand mixer. Mound the pasta on a plate and refrigerate until ready to use.

Chile-Garlic Oil
½ c olive oil
1 head garlic (15 cloves), peeled and smashed
1 tbsp chile flakes
2 tsp kosher salt
2 cherry tomatoes

In a small saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the garlic and cook until lightly golden, 5 min. Add the chile flakes, reduce the heat to low and cook until golden brown, 1-1 min. Remove from the heat and add the salt and cherry tomatoes; let sit for 5 min. Transfer to a blender and purée until smooth.

Sauce:
¾ c Italian-style tomato purée (passata)
2 tbsp tomato paste
2 tbsp chile-garlic oil
1 tbsp lemon juice
2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp lemon zest
12 basil leaves
12 parsley leaves
4 cherry tomatoes
1 medium shallot, minced

In a medium bowl, combine all the sauce ingredients and stir to combine.

Arrabiata:
Kosher salt, to taste
Homemade spaghetti
¼ c vegetable oil, divided
½ lb 36/40 Gulf shrimp, peeled and deveined
Sauce
¼ c shrimp or vegetable stock
2 tbsp minced parsley, for garnish
Chile-garlic oil, for drizzling

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the pasta and cook for 30 sec, then drain and rinse with cold water. In a wok, heat 2 tbsp oil over medium-high heat. Add the shrimp and season with salt. Cook until pink with charred spots, 1 min. Transfer to a plate and add the remaining 2 tbsp of oil to the wok. Add the pasta and stir-fry for 20-30 sec. Add the sauce along the outer ring of the wok and toss the pasta to coat. Add the reserved shrimp and the stock, and cook for 1 min more, tossing constantly. Divide between bowls and garnish with parsley. Then drizzle with more chile-garlic oil and serve.

