Spanakotiropita (spanakopita)

2 lb fresh spinach, chopped
2 large onion chopped
1 bunch green onions, chopped
4 tbsp olive oil
5 tbsp fresh chopped parsley
1/2 lb crumbled feta cheese
1/2 lb ricotta or cottage cheese
2 cloves garlic, minced
3 eggs, lightly beaten
1 lb phyllo dough (~20 sheets)
1/2 c melted butter
pepper to taste

Wash and drain the chopped spinach very well. If using frozen, thaw completely and squeeze out excess water. Spinach should be dry. Saute onion in olive oil or butter until translucent. Add the spinach and garlic. Stir until all of the spinach is coated with oil and cooked down somewhat. Remove from heat and add pepper and parsley. Set aside to cool, then drain any remaining liquid. In a large bowl, combine the cheeses into the eggs. Add the cooled spinach mixture and combine. Preheat oven to 350F. Grease the bottom of a 9"x13" baking dish. Cover phyllo dough with clean, damp towel to keep the dough from drying out. Place the top sheet in the baking dish and brush with oil (or butter). Keep adding layers, brushing with oil in between, until you ahve 8-10 sheets. Do not oil the last sheet. Spread the filling out, then add each remaining sheet of phyllo brushed with oil. Do not press down. With a sharp knife, make slits in the top of the pie to avoid bubbles when cooking. Bake for 30-40 min or until top is golden brown. Remove and cool for 10 min before cutting and serving.


variant

3 bunches (~2lbs) spinach
1 bunch dill
2 big onions
1 big leek
3 eggs
1 1/3 c feta cheese
2/3 c anthotiro cheese (can sub with ricotta)
3 cloves garlic
2 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp dried oregano
salt to taste
pepper to taste

Wash all greens and vegetables. If the spinach leaves are too big, chop them roughly. Add some salt to the spinach and squeeze it with your hands to strain it well. Thinly slice the leek and onions. Finely chop the garlic and mince the dill. In a big bowl, combine all the ingredients and mix well.

In this variant, place 3 homemade phyllo sheets on a greased 9"x13" pan, smooth 1/2 the filling, place a phyllo sheet over, then spread the remaining filling. Holding the corners of the overhanging phyllo, gently pull at each to remove a handful of corner dough. This will ensure the corners are not too thick. You will be left with 4 flaps; fold each of these over the center of the pie, creating a top layer to cover the filling. Pat down (don't press hard) to remove any air pockets. Top with the another sheet of phyllo gently to create a more finished look. Brush the top generously with oil and cut into serving sizes (~ 3x3") with a sharp knife. Sprinkle some water on to to finish. Bake for 45-60 min, checking periodically. If the surface has browned, cover with foil to prevent it from getting burned. Check if bottom has turned goledn brown (I guess use glass pan) and remove. Let cool before serving.
