Spanakopita
  --america's Test Kitchen

Filling:
2x10oz bags curly leaf spinach, rinsed
1/4 c water
12 oz feta cheese, rinsed, patted dry, and crumbled into fine pieces (~3 c)
3/4 c whole milk greek yogurt
4 medium scallions, sliced thin (~1/2 c)
2 large eggs, beaten
1/4 c minced fresh mint leaves
2 tbsp minced fresh dill leaves
3 medim garlic cloves, minced (~1 tbsp)
1 tsp grated zest + 1 tbsp lemon juice
1 tsp ground nutmeg
1/2 tsp black pepper
1/4 tsp salt
1/8 tsp cayenne

Place spinach and water in large microwave safe bowl. Cover bowl with large dinner plate. Microwave on high power until spinach is wilted and decreased in volume by half, ~5 min. Using potholders, remove bowl from microwave and keep covered, 1 min. Carefully remove plate and transfer spinach to colander set in sink. Using back of rubber spatula, gently prss spinach against colander to release excess liquid. Transfer spinach to cutting board and roughly chop. Transfer spinach to clean kitchen towel and squeeze to remove excess water. Place drained spinach in large bowl. Add remaining ingredients and mix until thoroughly combined/ Filling can be made up to 24 hrs in advance and stored in refrigerator.

Phyllo:
7 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
1/2 lb 14x9" phyllo, thawed
1 1/2 oz pecorino romano, grated fine (~3/4 c)
2 tsp sesame seeds (optional)

Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heat oven to 425F. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Using pastry brush, lightly brush 14x9" rectangle in center of parchment with melted butter to cover area same size as phyllo. Lay 1 sheet on parchment and brush thoroughly with butter. Repeat with 9 more layers, brushing each with butter, should have 10 layers in total. Spread spinach mixture evenly over phyllo, leaving 1/4" boarder on all sides. Cover spinach with 6 more phyllo sheets, brushing each with butter and sprinkling each with ~2 tbsp cheese. Lay 2 more phyllo sheets on top, brushing each with butter and sprinkling with cheese. Working from center outward, use palms of your hands to compress layes and press out any air pockets. Using sharp knife, score pie through the top 3 layers into 24 equal pieces. Sprinkle with sesame seeds (if using). Bake until phyllo is golden and crisp, 20-25 min. Cool on baking sheet 10 min or up to 2 hrs. Slide spanakopita, still on parchment, to cutting board. Cut into squares and serve.


Notes: Full fat sour cream can be substituted for yogurt. Don't thaw phyllo in microwave, let it sit in the refrigerator overnight or on the counter for 4-5 hrs. To make ahead, freeze the spanakopita on the baking sheet, wrapped well in plastic, or cut in half and freeze smaller sections. Bake frozen, increasing baking time by 5-10 min.
