Speculoos Banana Cream Pie

Crust:
3 1/2 c (14oz) crushed speculoos cookies
3/4 c milk powder
1/4 c granulated sugar
1 1/2 tsp cinnamon
1 tsp salt
2 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, melted

Preheat oven to 350F. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine all the ingredient except the butter, and mix until incorporated. With the motor running, stream in the butter and continue to mix until combined. Pour the mixture into a 9" pie tin, using a flat bottomed cup, press the crumbs down and along the sides to form an even crust. Bake just to set the crumbs, 5 min, then let cool completely.

Cream:
2 1/4 c whole milk
2/3 c sugar, divided
2 vanilla beans, seeds scraped
5 tbsp cornstarch
9 large egg yolks
1 stick unsalted butter, cubed

In a large pot, bring the milk, 1/3 c of sugar, and vanilla to a simmer, then remove from the heat. In a bowl, whisk together the remaining sugar with the cornstarch. Slowly whisk in 1/2 c of the milk mixture, followed by the egg yolks one at a time, until incorporated. Whisk the egg mixture back into the pot of milk and return to medium heat. Cook, stirring constantly until thickened, 3-4 min, then continue whisking for 1 min more. Remove from the heat and add in the cubed butter. Whisk until smooth, then transfer to a bowl, cover and let cool in the fridge.

Bananas:
3/4 c dark brown sugar
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1/2 tsp cinnamon
4 ripe bananas, peeled and sliced
1/3 c orange juice
1/4 c dark rum

In a medium skillet, melt the sugar and butter over medium high heat. Add the cinnamon and bananas, and cook until the bananas begin to caramelize, 5-6 min. Deglaze the pan with the oj and rum. Remove the pan from the heat. Using a long lighter or match, flambe the bananas until the rum cooks off, 1-2 min. Transfer to a bowl and let cool completely.

Chantilly:
2 c heavy cream
1 c marscapone
1/4 c sugar
1 vanilla bean, seeds scraped

In a large bowl, combine all the ingredients and, using a handheld immersion blender, blend until smooth. Transfer to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment and whisk until stiff peaks form. Transfer to a piping bag fitted with a st. honore pastry tip and refrigerate until ready to use. 

Using a slotted spoon, scoop out the banans and layer in the bottom of the pie shell, discarding any extra liquid. Spread the cream in an even layer over the bananas, then pipe the chantilly in a zigzag pattern over the top. Chill for 1 hr to set, then slice and serve.
