Asha's Spiced Lamb Meatballs with Peas and Spring Onions
  --Asha Loupy

Meatball Marsala:
1 tbsp coriander seeds
1 1/2 tsp black pepper
1 1/2 tbsp cumin seeds
1 1/2 tsp fennel seeds
1 tsp fenugreek seeds
6 green cardamom pods
1/2 cinnamon quill , or 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1 bay leaf or Himalayan Tejpatta leaf, torn into pieces

Heat a medium skillet over medium heat. Add the coriander seeds and peppercorns to the skillet and toast for 30 s. Add the rest of the spices (if you are using ground cinnamon, wait to add until the end after the spices are ground) and continue to cook until the cumin seeds start to sputter and the rest of the spices just start to turn golden. Transfer the spices to a spice grinder and blend until coarsely ground. Alternatively, you can do this with a mortar and pestle (yes, getting that arm workout in!). If you are using ground cinnamon, add it after the spices are ground. Transfer to an airtight container and store in a cool, dry place.

Meatballs:
1 small red onion, peeled and root still intact
1 medium zucchini
1 c fresh parsley, finely chopped
1 c fresh cilantro, leaves and tender stems, finely chopped
1/4 c mint leaves, finely chopped
2 tbsp meatball masala or 1 1/2 tbsp Garam Masala + 1 1/2 tsp toasted ground Hariyali Fennel
1 1/2 tsp powdered Guntur Sannam Chillies
2 tsp kosher salt
1/3 c full-fat greek yogurt
1 lb ground lamb or beef
3 tbsp evoo, divided

Grate the onion and zucchini on the large side of a box grater into a large bowl. Add the parsley, cilantro, mint, meatball masala, Guntur Sannam chillies, and salt, and toss to combine. Add the ground lamb and yogurt and mix well. Take a small portion of the the lamb mixture and cook in a skillet or in the microwave. Taste and adjust salt or spices, if necessary. Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hr, or overnight. Preheat the broiler, moving the rack to be ~6" from the flame. Drizzle 1 1/2 tbsp evoo onto a large, rimmed baking sheet and set aside. Divide the meatball mixture into 18 portions. Wet your hands and, taking one portion at a time, roll into an oblong oval. Place the meatball on the reserved oiled sheet pan and repeat with the remaining lamb mixture. Brush the tops with the remaining 1 /12 tbsp evoo. Broil the meatballs until cooked through and golden brown on top, 9-13 min. Remove from the oven and let rest a few min before serving.

Peas:
1 large spring onion, thinly sliced
2 lemons
1 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 c frozen peas, defrosted in a bowl of hot water and drained
3 tbsp evoo
1/2 c fresh mint leaves, or other tender green herbs like parsley, cilantro or dill

Meanwhile, start the spring onion and pea mixture. Zest 2 lemons into a medium bowl and then juice 1 lemon into the same bowl, reserving the second lemon for later. Add the spring onion and salt, toss to combine, and let sit for 10 min. (This will tame the sharpness of the onion, lightly quick-pickling it). When ready to serve add the peas, olive oil and herbs and toss to combine. To serve, spoon the lemony peas onto a large serving platter, then arrange the cooked meatballs on top. Finish with an extra drizzle of evoo, if desired. Cut the remaining lemon into wedges and serve alongside.

