Spicy Pork Noodles with Green Beans
  --Hana Asbrink
  
8 oz ground pork
1 tbsp cooking wine, like Shaoxing wine, mirin, or sake
1 tsp + 1 tbsp shoyu, divided
3 medium garlic cloves, minced
1 small (1-1 1/2") piece ginger, peeled and minced
freshly cracked black pepper, to taste
2 tbsp doubanjiang (Sichuan chile bean paste)
1 tbsp oyster sauce
2 tbsp chile oil, plus more to taste
1 tsp granulated sugar
2 tbsp neutral oil (such as canola or vegetable), divided
12-14 oz green beans, washed, ends trimmed, and cut into 1 1/2 - 2" pieces
8 oz dried egg noodles (such as lo mein, chow mein, or ramen noodles)
1/4 tsp toasted sesame oil
1/4 c roasted peanuts (salted or unsalted), roughly chopped
2 scallions, thinly sliced

In a bowl, add the pork, cooking wine, 1 tsp shoyu, garlic, and ginger. Season with freshly cracked pepper. Mix until combined. In another bowl, stir together the doubanjiang, 1 tbsp shoyu, oyster sauce, chile oil, and sugar. Bring a medium pot filled with water to a boil for the noodles. In a large skillet, heat 1 tbsp of neutral oil over medium-high heat. Add the pork and spread it into a flat layer. Cook, untouched, until the bottom starts to caramelize, 3-4 min. Use a metal spatula or flat wooden spoon to flip and break up the meat. Continue cooking until the pink disappears, 1-2 min. Push the pork to one side of the skillet. Add the remaining 1 tbsp of neutral oil to the now empty side of the pan and add the green beans. Cook until bright green and still crisp, 2-3 min. Continue to break up the pork and toss with green beans together in the skillet. Lower the heat to low. Cook the noodles according to package instructions. Reserve ~1 c of noodle cooking water, then drain the noodles in a colander. Add 1/4 c of the reserved water to the chile sauce and mix to combine. To the skillet, add the sauce and stir everything with the spatula or spoon. Add the noodles to the skillet and toss again. Add a bit more reserved water, 1 tbsp at a time, if the skillet starts to stick too much. Turn off the heat. Toss in the sesame oil. Divide among plates, then top with peanuts and scallions. 


