Spiced Dal breakfast bowl w/ yogurt & pickled daikon

Pickled Daikon:

1/2 c. boiling water
1/4 c. rice wine vinegar
3 tbsp sugar
1 tsp kosher salt
1 small daikon (about 6oz) cut into 3" lengths and julienned

In a small, nonreactive bowl, whisk the water, vinegar, sugar and salt until the sugar dissolves. Add the daikon, then cover and chill. Can be made up to a week ahead.

Spiced Dal:

1" piece ginger, peeled and sliced into rounds
2 garlic cloves, crushed
2 tbsp ghee (butter or canola oil can be substituted)
1 small yellow onion, finely diced
2 tsp ground corriander
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp ground turmeric
1/4 tsp crushed red pepper flakes
3/4 c masoor dal, rinsed
kosher salt to taste

In a blender, puree the ginger and garlic with 1/4 c. water; set aside.
In a medium saucepan ovecr medium-high heat, add the ghee. Add the onions and cook, stirring occasionally, until they are soft and lightly browned, 5-6 min. Add the garlic-ginger mixture along with the corianer, cumin, turmeric, and red pepper flakes and simmer until most of the water has evaporated, 1-2 min. Add the dal along with 2 c cold water. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce to medium low and simmer, stirring occasionally, until the dal is very tender and has broken, 16-20 min. Season with salt; keep warm.

For the breakfast bowl:

1/2 c whole-fat greek yogurt
2 tbsp water
1/2 tsp lemon zest
freshly ground black pepper, to taste
6 large eggs
2 tbsp butter
2 c cooked jasmine rice
1/2 pickled daikon
2 scallions, thinly sliced on the bias
1 c cilantro
1 tsp Aleppo pepper for garnish

In a small bowl, combine yogurt, water, lemon zest and season with salt & pepper; set aside.
In a bowl, whisk the eggs vigorously. Season with salt and pepper.
In a medium nonstick skillet over medium heat, add the butter. When the butter begins to foam, add the eggs and cook, stirring occasionally using a rubber spatula, until the eggs just being to set, 2-3 min. Remove from hear.
Divide the dal among 2 bowls. Top each searving with half of the yogurt, rice, scrambled eggs, pickled daikon, scallion, and cilantro. Sprinkly with Aleppo pepper and serve.
