Vegetarian Spring Rolls

Dipping Sauce:

1/3 c soy
1 tbsp rice vinegar
1/4 tsp sesame oil
2 tsp honey
2 tsp chili oil
1/2 tsp finely ground ginger

In a small mixing bowl, combine all the ingredients and set aside until ready to serve

Spring Roll:

1 tbsp canola oil
1 tsp minced garlic
2 tsp finely grated ginger
3 green onions, minced
12 shiitake mushroom caps, julienned
1/2 small green cabbage, shredded (2 c)
1 c bamboo shoots, drained and julienned
kosher salt to taste
1 c julienned snow peas
1 1/2 tbsp soy
1 tsp sesame oil
2 tbsp finely chopped cilantro
spring roll wrappers
1 egg white, lightly beaten
oil for frying (canola, etc)

In a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat, add the oil. When the oil begins to shimmer, ad the garlic, ginger, and green onions, and cook, stirring often, until fragrant, 30-40 s. Add the mushrooms, cabbage, and bamboo shoots. Season with salt. Saute, shaking the pan often until the vegetables start to soften, 3 m. Increase the heat to high, then add the snow peas, soy, and sesame oil, and season with salt. Saute for 1 more minute untile the vegetables are crisp-tender. Stir in the cilantro. Drain the filling to remove any excess moisture, then spread the vegetables on a rimmed baking sheet and let them cool to room temp for about 10 min. Begin assembling the rolls: working with 1 wrapper, place the wrapper so that a corner is facing you, then spoon 2 tbsp of the filling onto the bottom third of hte wrapper that is closest to you. Lift the bottom of the wrapper and fold over the filling, flattening the wrapper around the filling so taht no air bubbles form. Tuck it back. Begin folding the wrapper away from you. Fold in the sides to form an envelope-like shape. Continue to cinch and fold. Brush the top inside corner lightly with the egg white. The spring roll should measure 1-by3 1/2". Place the spring roll on a parchment lined tray; cover with damp paper towl. Lather, rinse, repeat until all the wrappers are filled. 
Fill a wok or a medium heavy bottomed pot with 2" of oil and heat to 350F. Working in batches of 4, fry tolls, turning occasionally, until gbd, 1 1/2-2 m. Let cool on a rack.
Make ahead: can freeze the rolls in a single layer on parchment lined sheet, making sure no touchy. Once frozen, can put the rolls in a freezer bag and store up to 1 month. Add 1 min additional fry time for frozen rolls.

