Squash Blossom Ricotta Pie

Dough:
2 1/4 c ap flour + more for dusting
1 tsp salt
1/2 tsp sugar
6 oz unsalted butter, cold and cubed
1/2 c ice water
1 tbsp lemon verbena leaves
1 tbsp rosie basil leaves
1/2 tbsp flowering thyme leaves

Preheat the oven to 350F. In a large bowl, add the flour, sugar, and salt and whisk together until fully incorporated. Add in the cold butter and, using a pastry cutter, work into the flour mixture until the butter is pea sized chunks. Slowly stream in the water until a dough begins to form. Add the herbs and knead into the dough until just incorporated, being careful no to overwork. Wrap the dough in plastic and store in the refrigerator for at least 30 min.

Squash:
2 medium (12oz) pattypan squash, thinly sliced using a mandoline
1 medium (7oz) zucchini, thinly sliced lengthwise using a mandoline
2 tbsp salt

Salt the squash; place the slices in a colander over a sink. Sprinkle the slices with the sat and let them degorge for 30 min. Lightly rinse the suqash and lay out each slice between layers on paper towels to dry completely.

Filling:
1/2 c goat cheese
1/2 c ricotta
1 tbsp chives, finely chopped
1 tbsp lemon juist
1/2 tbsp lemon zest
1/2 tsp black pepper
1 rgg
1 garlic clove, zested
kosher salt to taste 

In a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, add all ingredients except the salt and mix until all components are fully combined. Season with slat and reserve in refrigerator until needed.


Assembly:
Roll out the dough on a floured surface into ~ 12" circle. Lay the dough over a 9" pie pan and trim off any excess, leaving ~1" all the way around. Crimp the dough all the way around and, usnig a fork prick the entire botton surface. Plae a sheet of foil over the dough and press lightly so that it is toughing the dough. Weigh down the dough with baking beans to ensure that the dough doesn't rise during baking. Bake for 15 min. Remove from the oven and take off beans and foil. Bake uncovered 15 min more, until lightly golden. Remove from the oven and allow to rest until cook enough to handle, 15-20 min. Spread the cheese filling on top of the crust and shingle with the pattypan squash slices, then lay the squash blossoms over the slices. Roll the zucchini slices tightly lengthwise from one end to the other to form zucchini roses, and place them between any empty spaces around the blossoms. Bake until the squash is cooked and the pie is golden, 40-45 min. Remove from the oven and allow to cool.
