Easy Sticky Buns
  - Ina Garten

12 tbsp unsalted butter
1/3 c light brown sugar, lightly packed
1/2 c pecans roughly chopped
1 package (17.3oz/2 sheets) frozen puff pastry, defrosted

Filling:
2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
2/3 c light brown sugar, lightly packed
3 tsp cinnamon
1 c raisins

Preheat oven to 400F. Place 12 c muffin tin on a sheet pan lined with parchment paper. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachement, combine butter and sugar. Place 1 rounded tbsp of the mixture in each of the muffin cups. Distribute the pecans evenly on top of butter mixture. Lightly flour a work surface. Unfold 1 sheet puff pastry with the folds going left to right. Brush the whole sheet with the melted butter. Leaving a 1" border, sprinkle each sheet with half the sugar, cinnamon, and raisins. Starting with the end nearest you, roll the pastry up snugly, finishing the roll with the seam side down. Trim the ends of the roll about 1/2" and discard. Slice the roll in 6 equal pieces, each ~1 1/2" wide. Place each piece, spiral side up, in muffin cups. Repeat with the second sheet of puff pastry. Bake for 30 min, until buns are golden to dark brown on top and firm to the touch. Allow to cool for 5 min, then invert the buns onto parchment paper, ease the filling and pecans out onto the buns with a spoon, and cool completely.


Sticky Buns
  --Cook's Illustrated

Flour Paste:
2/3 c water
1/4 c (1 1/3 oz) bread flour
Whisk water and flour together in a small bowl until no lumps remain. Microwave, whisking every 25 s, until mixture thickens to stiff, smooth, pudding-like consistency that forms mound when dropped from end of whisk into bowl, 50-75 s.

Dough:
2/3 c milk
1 large egg + 1 yolk
2 3/4 c (15 1/8 oz) bread flour
2 tsp instant or rapid rise yeast
3 tbsp sugar
1 1/2 tsp salt
6 tbsp unsalted butter, softened

In bowl of stand mixer, whisk flour paste and milk together until smooth. Add egg + yolk and whisk until incorporated. Add flour and yeast. Fit stand mixer with dough hook and mix on low speed until all flour is moistened, 1-2 min. Let stand for 15 min. Add sugar and salt and mix on medium low for 5 min. Stop mixer and add butter. Continue to mix on medium low for 5 min longre, scraping down hook and sides halfway through (dough will stick to bottom of bowl). Transfer to lightly floured surface. Knead briefly to form ball and transfer seam side down to lightly greased bowl; lightly coat surface of dough with vegetable oil spray and cover with plastic wrap. Let dough rise until just doubled in volume, 40 min to 1 hr.

Topping:
6 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
1.2 c packed (3 1/2 oz) dark brown sugar
1/4 c (1 3.4 oz) sugar
1/4 c dark corn syrup
1/4 tsp salt
2 tbsp water
1 c pecans, toasted and chopped (optional)

Grease 13x9" metal baking pan. Whisk butter, sugars, syrup, and salt together in medium bowl until smooth. Add water and whisk until incorporated. Pour mixture into prepared pan and tilt to cover bottomw. Sprinkle evenly with pecans (if using).

Filling:
3/4 c packed (5 1/4 oz) dark brown sugar
1 tsp cinnamon

Combine in small bowl until thoroughly mixed; set aside.

Assembly:
Turn dough onto lightly floured surface. Press dough gently but firmly to expel air. Working from center toward edge, pat and stretch to form 18x15" rectangle with long edge nearest you. Sprinkle filling over dough, leaving 1" border along top edge; smooth filling into even layer with your hand, then gently press mixture into dough to adhere. Beginning with long edge nearest you, roll dough into cylinder, taking care no to roll too tightly. Pinch seam to seal and roll cylander seam side down. Mark gently with knife to create 12 equal portions. To slice, hold strand of dental floss taut and slide underneath cylinder, stopping at first mark. Cross ends of floss over each other and pull. Slice cylinder into 12 portions and transfer, cut sides down, to prepared baking pan. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise until buns are ppuffy and touching one another, 40-60 min. Buns may be refrigerated immediately after shaping for up to 14 hrs. To bake, if refrigerated, remove from refrigerator and let site until buns are puffy and toughing one another, 1-1 1/2 hrs. Adjust ove racks to lowest and lower middle positions. Place rimmed baking sheet on lower rack to catch any drips and heat oven to 375F. Bake buns on upper rack until golden brown, ~20 min. Tent with foil and bake until center of dough registers at least 200F, 10-15 min longer. Let buns cool in pan on wire rack for 5 min. Using spoon scoop any glaze on baking sheet onto buns. Let cool for at least 10 min longer before serving.
