Sweet and Sticky Crispy Beef
  --Joyce, Pups with chopsticks

1 1/2 lb top sirloin steak (any type of beef works - flank steak, skirt steak)
1 c potato starch, divided in half

Slice the steak into 1 cm wide strips and place it in a bowl. (If your steak is more than 1 cm thick, cut the strips in half again length-wise)

Marinade:
1 small onion
2 cloves garlic
4-5 slices ginger (sliced thin, 2-3 mm)
1 tbsp light shoyu

In a food processor, blitz the onion, garlic, and ginger until it is a paste. Add the marinade and 1 tbsp of soy sauce to the beef and mix well and marinade it in the fridge for 1 hr (or 20-30 min in room temperature). After the beef has marinated, dust 1/2 c of potato starch (or corn starch) on the beef and use your fingers to loosely coat the beef with it. Let it sit for 10 min. While you are waiting for the meat, heat up a heavy bottom pot (or wok) set the temperature of the oil to 375F (191C) (or medium heat) and add at least 1" of oil and wait for it to get hot. Once the beef has sat for 10 min, dust the other 1/2 c of potato starch (or corn starch) on the beef again to lightly re-coat the beef and lightly dust off any excess starch. Deep fry it immediately. Using your fingers separate the beef if they are clumped together and deep fry it in the oil in small batches (make sure the oil is hot but not smoking - to test if the oil is hot enough, add 1 small piece of beef first and see if it instantly sizzles). Deep fry the beef for 1-2 min, and remove it from the pot onto a plate with parchment paper or newspaper. Once all the beef has been cooked once (first fry), add all of it back in for the second deep fry for 1 more min.

Sauce:
3/4 c honey
1/4 c + 2 tbsp light shoyu (reduced sodium)
1/2 cup water
1 tbsp hoisin sauce
1/2 tbsp rice vinegar
1 tbsp sesame oil
1 tbsp shaoxing cooking wine
5 tsp corn starch
6 tsp water

Remove all the oil from the pot and set it back on the stove on medium low heat. Add in all the sauce ingredients, except the corn starch slurry ingredients. Stir until everything is combined well and wait until it comes to a low rolling boil. In a small bowl, combine the corn starch and cold water to make a corn starch slurry and add it into the sauce and keep stirring until the sauce has thickened. Turn off the heat. Add in the crispy beef and coat it with the sauce.

Garnish:
1-2 stalks scallions, chopped
sesame seeds

Garnish and serve.


Notes: Can double the sauce if you want extra (to drizzle over rice) For some kick, add a few chopped up peppers while you are cooking the sauce or add a few teaspoons of cayenne pepper for a bit of a kick!

