Stovetop Skillet Pizza

1 lb pizza dough, at room temperature 1 hr
1-2 tsp vegetable or olive oil
1/2 - 1 c pizza sauce
1-2 c shredded cheese, such as mozzarella
1-2 c toppings, like diced onions, diced peppers, cooked sausage, or any other favorite toppings

Have the sauce, shredded cheese, and other toppings ready to go. Cook any raw toppings that you want cooked before assembling the pizza. Arrange all of the toppings within easy reach of the stove, where you'll be cooking the pizza. Divide the dough in half. Lightly flour your counter and then press or roll one piece of the dough into a round that's slightly smaller than the skillet you will be using -- you will need a 10 or 12" cast iron, stainless steel, or nonstick skillet. Place the skillet over medium-high heat and add a teaspoon or two of the oil. You want just enough oil to slick the bottom of the pan. Heat until the oil is shimmering. Transfer the round of pizza dough to the pan. Cook until you see large bubbles forming on top and the underside shows golden spots, about 1 minute. You can deflate the bubbles with the edge of your spatula — or leave them! They'll turn into crispy bits once you flip the pizza. Use a flat spatula to flip the pizza dough. Immediately top with a few spoonfuls of sauce, a generous sprinkle of cheese, and other toppings. Cover the skillet and reduce the heat to medium. This helps the cheese melt and prevents the bottom of the pizza from burning. After 4 minutes, peek under the lid and see if the cheese has melted. Cover and continue cooking if needed; adjust the heat as needed to make sure the bottom gets golden-brown but doesn't burn. The pizza is ready as soon as the cheese has melted to your liking. Transfer the pizza to a cutting board with the spatula and let it cool slightly before slicing and serving. Meanwhile, start cooking the other pizza with the remaining dough, sauce, and toppings.


Notes: If you'd like a more crispy, deeply golden top, run the pizza under the broiler for a minute or two at the end of cooking, until the top starts to develop toasted spots.

