Strawberry Turnovers
  --SweetPeas Kitchen

Puff Pastry:
2 c unbleached ap flour (10 oz)
1 tbsp sugar
1 tsp table salt
16 tbsp unsalted butter (2 sticks) cold, cut into 1/4" cubes
6 tbsp of water ice
1 tsp lemon juice

In the bowl of food processor fitted with steel blade, pulse to combine flour, sugar, and salt. Add one-quarter of the butter cubes and cut butter into flour until butter is in dime-sized pieces, about four 1 s pulses. Add remaining butter to coat cubes with flour, two 1 s pulses. Transfer mixture to medium bowl. n a small bowl, combine ice water and lemon juice. Add 3 tbsp liquid to flour and butter mixture and toss until just combined. Toss in remaining water, then turn dough out onto work surface and press it together with both hands. Using the heel of one hand braced against the work surface, drag a small portion of the dough forward in a short, brisk strokes. Repeat with the remaining dough portions. Gather the dough together with a bench scraper and repeat the process a second time. Press the dough into an 8-4" rectangle, wrap in plastic, and refrigerate at least 30 min. Unwrap dough and place onto a lightly floured large piece of parchment paper and roll into a 15x10" rectangle. Fold the dough lengthwise into thirds. Starting from the narrow end, fold the dough into thirds. Press it to form a 6x5" rectangle. Repeat process. If dough is soft and sticky, wrap in plastic and refrigerate 30 min until workable, then repeat rolling and pressing. When second rolling and folding is complete, wrap dough in plastic and chill at least 30 min. Unwrap dough and place on a large sheet of parchment paper lightly dusted with flour. Roll the dough to an 18" square that is slightly under 1/8" thick. Using a ruler and a pizza cutter, trim the dough to a 15" square. Make two incisions at 5" intervals on all four sides of the square. Line ruler up with incisions and cut the dough into nine 5" squares. Slide parchment and dough onto a large cookie sheet and refrigerate while making strawberry filling.

Filling:
1 lb fresh strawberries, gently rinsed and dried, hulled and diced
1/4 c sugar

In a large bowl, combine diced strawberries and sugar. Allow to sit for 5 min, then drain in fine-mesh strainer set over bowl. Reserve juices. To assemble the turnovers, working one piece of dough at a time, remove dough squares from refrigerator and set on work surface. Place 2 tbsp strawberry filling in center of dough. Moisten two adjoining edges of dough square with finger dipped in reserved strawberry liquid, then fold top portion of dough over bottom, making sure to overlap the bottom portion by 1/8". With a fork dipped in flour, press to seal and crimp the edges. Using wide metal spatula, transfer turnover to prepared baking sheet. Repeat process with remaining dough squares. Refrigerate 30 minutes or cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate up to 24 hr.

Topping:
1/4 c sugar
cinnamon?

While turnovers are chilling, adjust oven rack to upper-middle position and heat oven to 375F. Combine sugar and cinnamon in small bowl. Brush turnovers lightly with reserved strawberry liquid and sprinkle evenly with sugar. Bake until golden brown, 18-22 min. Using wide metal spatula, transfer turnovers to wire rack to cool slightly before serving.


Notes: If at any point during rolling the dough becomes sticky and difficult to work with, transfer it to a cookie sheet or cutting board, wrap it in plastic, and chill until it becomes workable. The dough can be made then wrapped tightly in plastic wrap and kept for up to 5 days in the refrigerator or 2 months in the freezer. Defrost frozen dough in the refrigerator 1 day before you plan to use it. This recipe freezes beautifully so you can enjoy strawberry turnovers anytime of the year. Just fill, shape and freeze the unbaked turnovers. I like to wrap each turnover individually then place in a ziploc bag (nothing is worse than freezer burn!) When you are ready to bake, proceed with baking, pop in the oven and add a few minutes to the baking time. No need to thaw! Can sub frozen strawberries for fresh, just thaw prior. Can also sub premade puff pastry.
original recipe does not include amount of cinnamon, so use your judgment or skip
