Straberry Galette
  --Cook's Country

Dough:
1 1/2 c (7 1/2 oz) ap flour
1/2 tsp  salt
10 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1⁄2" cubes and chilled
6 tbsp ice water

Process flour and salt in food processor until combined, ~3 s. Scatter butter over top and pulse until mixture resembles coarse sand and butter pieces are size of small peas, ~10 pulses. Add ice water to flour mixture and pulse until dough begins to form small curds and holds together when pinched with your fingers, ~5 pulses.  Transfer mixture to lightly floured counter. Using bench scraper, gather dough into rough rectangular mound ~12" long and 4" wide. Starting at farthest end, use heel of your hand to smear small amount of dough against counter, pushing firmly down and away from you, to create separate pile of dough (flattened pieces of dough should look shaggy). Continue process until all dough has been worked. Gather dough into rough 12x4" mound and repeat smearing process. Form dough into 6" disk, wrap tightly in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 1 hr or up to 2 days. (Wrapped dough can be frozen for up to 1 month. If frozen, let dough thaw completely on counter before rolling.)

Filling:
1 1/2 lb strawberries, hulled, halved if small or quartered if large (5 c)
1/4 c (1 1/4 oz) + 1 tbsp sugar, divided
1/3 c strawberry jam
1 1/2 tbsp cornstarch
1/4 tsp salt

One hr before rolling out dough, toss strawberries with ¼ cup sugar in bowl. Set aside for 1 hr. Reserve 1 tbsp strawberry juice. Drain strawberries in colander in sink. Leave strawberries in colander while rolling out dough. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 375 F. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Roll dough into 12" circle on lightly floured counter, then transfer to prepared sheet. Cover dough loosely with plastic and refrigerate until firm, ~10 min.  Whisk jam, cornstarch, and salt in large bowl until combined. Add strawberries and toss gently to coat. Mound fruit in center of dough, leaving 2" border. Carefully grasp 1 edge of dough and fold up 2" over fruit. Repeat around circumference of galette, overlapping dough every 2"; firmly pinch pleated dough to secure, but do not press dough into fruit. Brush top of dough with reserved strawberry juice and sprinkle dough and filling with remaining 1 tbsp sugar. Bake until crust is deep golden brown and fruit is bubbling, 1 hr to 1 hr 10 min. Let galette cool on baking sheet for 10 min. Using parchment, carefully slide galette onto wire rack. Remove parchment and let cool on rack until just warm, ~30 min. Serve.



Notes: Quarter any strawberries larger than a ping-pong ball. Do not combine the macerated strawberries with the jam mixture until you're ready to form and bake the galette
