Strawberry Graham Galette
  --Claire Saffitz

7 graham crackers (~3.7 oz)
3/4 tsp kosher salt
2/3 c ap flour + more for rolling
5 tbsp sugar divided
2 large eggs
1/2 c stick unsalted butter, melted, cooled, divided
1 lb strawberris, hulled, sliced
1 lime (1/2 tsp finely grated zest, 1 tsp juice)

Place rack in bottom third of oven, preheat to 350F. Place graham crackers in a large resealable plastic bag and zip it up, pressing out most of the air. Using a wine bottle or rolling pin, firmly roll over crackers several times, crushing them into fine crumbs (some larger crumbs are okay). Transfer 1 c crumbs to medium bowl. Add salt, flour, and 2 tbsp sugar. Mix with a fork to combine, then add 1 egg and 6 tbsp melted butter. Mix with fork until dough forms, then knead with your hands inside of bowl until no floury spots remain and dough is smooth. Lightly flour a piece of parchment paper and place dough on top. Lightly flour top of dough, then cover with another piece of parchment. Using bottle or rolling pin, roll dough into a round ~12" in diameter and 1/8" thick. Periodically peel back parchment and dust with more flour to prevent sticking. Slide entire sheet of parchment paper onto a rimmed baking sheet. Sprinkle 1 tbsp sugar over dough leaving ~2" border. Pile strawberries into center of dough and arrange in an even layer, leaving the same 2" border. Sprinkle 1 tbsp sugar and drizzle with remaining 2 tbsp butter. Using a microplane or fine grater, grate zest of about one-half of lime over strawberries. Cut off half of lime with no zest and squeeze juice over strawberries. Save the other half for later. Beat remaining egg in a small bowl with fork until no streaks remain. Brush egg wash around border of pastry. Using edges of parchment to help lift, fold empty border of dough up and over strawberries, working your way around in roughly 2" sections, overlapping folds as needed. Press all the way around to secure folds and keep dough in place. It might crack or tear in places, but don’t worry! Just pinch it back together. Brush top of border with remaining egg wash and sprinkle with remaining 1 tbsp sugar. Bake galette until crust is browned around the edges and juices from strawberries are syrupy and actively bubbling, 40–45 min. If some juices escape and end up on the parchment paper, don’t worry—the parchment will prevent the tart from sticking. Let cool at least 20 min. Tart can be made several hours ahead. Let sit at room temperature. Once fully cooled, droop a piece of plastic over top.

Optional: whip 1/2 c very cold heavy whipping cream with remaining zest on lime for serving. 


Notes: can sub cornflakes or almond cookies for graham crackers
