Strawberry Lemon Lattice Pie
  --Allison Roman

Crust:
2 1/4 ap flour
1 tbsp sugar
1 tsp salt
1 c + 2 tbsp chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 tbsp apple cider vinegar
3 tbsp ice water

Mix flour, sugar, and salt in a large bowl. Toss butter in flour mixture to evenly coat. Working quickly and aggressively, use your fingers to rub butter into flour to create large, shaggy pieces of dough (the idea is to smash the butter into the flour, creating some pieces that are flat and thin and some that are large and chunky). Combine vinegar and ice water in a small bowl and drizzle over flour mixture, running your fingers through the flour as you drizzle to evenly distribute. Kn Turn dough out onto a work surface and knead 1 or 2 more times, pressing to incorporate shaggy edges. Divide dough into 2 pieces and press into about 1"-thick disks. Wrap with plastic and chill at least 1 hour.ead dough in the bowl until it starts to come together (it will still look a little dry). Turn dough out onto a work surface and knead 1 or 2 more times, pressing to incorporate shaggy edges. Divide dough into 2 pieces and press into about 1"thick disks. Wrap with plastic and chill at least 1 hr. Dough can be made 5 days ahead; keep chilled, or freeze up to 1 month.

Pie:
1 1/2 c sugar
1/4 c cornstarch
pinch kosher salt
2 lb strawberris, hulled, quartered
2 lemons. very thinly sliced, seeds removed
1 tbsp unseasoned rice vinegar
1 large egg
2 tbsp demerara sugar (turbinado)
1 tsp water

Roll out a disk of dough on a lightly floured surface to a 13" round. Transfer round to a parchment-lined baking sheet and chill while you roll out remaining disk of dough to a 13" round ~1/4" thick. Cut second round into 4 strips ~2 1/4" wide. Stack strips on top of first round of dough, separating with a sheet of parchment. Chill while you prepare filling. Preheat oven to 350F. Combine granulated sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a large bowl. Add strawberries, lemon slices, and vinegar. Toss to coat fruit evenly in sugar mixture, separating lemon slices that stick together. Beat egg with 1 tsp. water in a small bowl just to blend. Lift parchment with strips of dough onto work surface. Using your hands, or wrapping dough around a floured rolling pin if you're nervous, carefully transfer round of dough to a 9" pie dish. Lift up edges and allow dough to slump down into dish. Trim edges of dough with kitchen shears to even out, leaving at least a 2" overhang (or, you can leave untrimmed if you want a rustic look); brush edge with half of egg wash. Scrape in strawberry filling along with any accumulated juices in bowl. Lay 2 strips lengthwise over pie filling, then arrange remaining 2 strips crosswise across pie, working alternately over and under lengthwise strips to create a lattice pattern. Fold edge of bottom round up and over strips and press to seal. Brush dough with remaining egg wash; sprinkle with demerara sugar. Place pie pan on a foil-lined rimmed baking sheet. Bake until crust is deep golden brown on top and bottom and juices are bubbling, ~90 min. Transfer pie to a wire rack and let sit at least 4 hrs before slicing. Pie can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill.

