Strawberry Pop Tarts
  --Claire Saffitz
  
Pastry Dough:
2 1/2 c (313 g) ap flour
4 tsp  sugar
1 tsp kosher salt
1 1/4 c (2 1/2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter

Whisk flour, sugar, and salt in a large bowl to combine. Toss butter in dry ingredients to coat, then working quickly, grate butter on the large holes of a box grater into the bowl. Toss grated butter to coat, then, using your fingers, work butter into dry ingredients, smashing until the largest pieces are about the size of a lentil. Tossing constantly with a fork, drizzle in 1/3 c + 1 tbsp. ice water, then using your hands, lightly toss the mixture several times to distribute water evenly. Knead dough in the bowl with your hands until it comes together into a smooth mass with no spots of dry flour remaining. Transfer dough to a sheet of wax paper or plastic wrap and pat into a 1/2”-thick square. Wrap tightly, pressing out air, then roll over dough with a rolling pin in both directions, forcing it into the corners of the wrapping to make a tightly compacted square. Chill at least 2 hr and up to 36 hr ahead.

Filling:
2x10 oz packages frozen strawberries
1/3 c  sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
1 tsp vanilla extract
finely grated lemon zest
fresh lemon juice

Preheat oven to 250F. Combine strawberries, granulated sugar, salt, and 3 tbsp. water in a large saucepan and cover. Bring to a simmer over medium heat, uncovering and stirring occasionally, until berries are softened, ~5–8 min. Remove from heat and purée with a hand blender, leaving a bit of texture if you like (or, transfer to a standard blender and blend, then return to the saucepan). Return to a simmer, uncovered, and cook, stirring often with a heatproof rubber spatula, being sure to scrape the sides and bottom of pan, until filling is thick enough that you can see the bottom of the pot for a second when you scrape the spatula across, 10—15 min. Scrape filling onto a large rimmed baking sheet lined with a silicone mat and spread into a thin, even layer. Bake, stirring every 15 min with spatula, until it becomes a thick paste that holds its shape (it should resembles tomato paste), 45–60 min. Let cool, then transfer filling to a small bowl and stir in vanilla. Add lemon zest and juice to taste. Filling can be made 1 week ahead. Cover and chill.

Sprinkles:
1 large egg white
pinch of kosher salt
2 c powdered sugar
Orange, red, pink, green, and yellow food coloring

Whisk egg white and a pinch of kosher salt in a medium bowl until foamy. Add powdered sugar a little bit at a time, whisking constantly and vigorously until you have a thick, smooth, opaque white icing (depending on the size of your egg white, you might not need all the sugar). Divide icing among 5 small bowls and, working one at a time, add food coloring a drop at a time, stirring with a spoon, until you have the desired color. Repeat until you have all 5 sprinkle colors: orange, red, pink, green, and yellow. Spread each color icing in an even strip across a sheet of parchment paper, making as thin a layer as possible. Slide parchment paper onto a baking sheet and let sit at room temperature until icing has dried and hardened completely, at least 12 hr. Peel icing off of parchment paper and break into smaller pieces with your hands. Place the pieces inside a resealable plastic bag and seal, pressing out any air. Beat the bag lightly with a rolling pin to pulverize the icing into tiny sprinkles. Transfer the sprinkles to a fine mesh sieve and shake to remove any tiny, dust-like particles; discard. Pass sprinkles through a colander or slotted spoon, reserving the pieces that fall through and returning any larger pieces that don’t to the bag and breaking up further with rolling pin. Repeat the double-sifting process until you have very small, relatively uniform sprinkles. Transfer to an airtight container, cover, and store at room temperature until you’re ready to assemble pop tarts. Sprinkles can be made 1 week ahead.

Assembly:
ap flour (for dusting)
1 large egg
pinch of kosher salt
2 c powdered sugar
1/2 tsp fresh lemon juice
1/2 tsp vanilla 

Preheat oven to 300F. Unwrap dough and cut in half. Re-wrap one half and return to the refrigerator. Roll out remaining dough on a lightly floured surface to ~14x10” rectangle. Transfer to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Using a ruler, lightly score straight lines on dough to make a 3x3 grid (you should have 9 rectangles each measuring ~4 1/2" long and 3 1/4” wide (don’t cut all the way through the pastry). Using the ruler, measure and lightly score another set of lines 1/4” from the inside of each rectangle (think of it as making a slightly smaller rectangle inside each of the 9 rectangles. Chill dough until firm, 10–15 min. Remove scored dough from the refrigerator and divide cooled filling among rectangles (about a slightly heaping tablespoonful each). Using a small offset spatula or a spoon, spread filling in an even layer so it fills up to the lines of the smaller rectangles (you’re leaving the 1/4” border exposed). Transfer to the refrigerator to chill. Roll out second piece of pastry into a 14x10” rectangle the same way as the first, then prick it all over with a fork. Crack egg into your hand, letting egg white fall into a medium bowl. Place egg yolk in a small bowl and beat to blend. Set egg white aside for making icing. Remove pastry with filling from the refrigerator and brush egg yolk over pastry, working around the filling. Drape the second piece of pastry over top, aligning the slabs and pressing out any air pockets. Press firmly around filling to seal pastry (take care to avoid the filling though). Use a bench scraper to cut down between rectangles to make nine 4 1/2x3 1/4” pop tarts; discard any scraps. Space pop tarts evenly on baking sheet. Chill until pastry is firm, 10–15 min. Bake pop tarts until golden underneath and puffed but still pale on top, 30–35 min. Let cool on baking sheet. Add salt to reserved egg white and whisk until foamy. Add powdered sugar a little bit at a time, whisking constantly and vigorously until you have a smooth, opaque white icing that falls off the whisk in a slowly dissolving ribbon (depending on the size of your egg white, you might not need all the sugar). Fill a disposable pastry bag or a resealable plastic bag with ~2 tbsp. icing and snip a very small opening from the end or a bottom corner. Pipe thin, even rectangles of icing on the surface of each pop tart, leaving ~1/4" border. Transfer any icing left in bag back to the bowl, then whisk in lemon juice and vanilla. Whisk in water a few drops at a time if needed to make the icing a bit more fluid but still thick and opaque. Working with 1 pop tart at a time, drizzle ~1 tsp icing inside the icing rectangles and use your finger or a toothpick to cover entire icing rectangle in a thin, even layer (add more icing if needed). You should have a smooth, even application of white icing. Before the icing starts to set, top pop tarts generously with sprinkles. Let sit at room temperature at least 1 hr to let the icing set before serving. Pop tarts can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature. After icing has had 24 hr to set, you can reheat in a 300F oven until warmed through, 5–8 min.


Note: Can use store bought sprinkles. Can use dehydrater for making sprinkles to speed up drying. Can sub any fruit for strawberries.



