Sticky Rice Stuffed Cornish Hen
 adapted from Brandon Jew, Mister Jiu's, San Francisco, CA
 
Brine:
8 c cold water
4 c Shaoxing cooking wine
¼ c kosher salt
¼ c brown sugar
2 tbsp black peppercorns, toasted
2 tbsp white peppercorns, toasted
2 star anise
2 medium (about 1½ to 2 lbs) cornish hens

In a 4-quart stockpot, combine all the brine ingredients, except the hens, and bring to a boil over high heat. Whisk until the sugar and salt are completely dissolved. Turn off the heat and allow the mixture to completely cool. Once the liquid has cooled, place the hens inside the pot and weigh them down with heavy plates or a bowl so they are completely submerged. Place the pot in the refrigerator and brine overnight. Remove the hens from the brine and pat dry. Place on a wire rack that's on top of a sheet pan lined with foil. Let the hens sit in the refrigerator uncovered while making the other components.

Filling:
1 c sticky rice
¼ c jasmine rice
2 tbsp peanut oil
2" piece ginger, peeled and minced
2 green onions, thinly sliced
1½ c (3½ oz) shiitake mushrooms
⅓ c Chinese sausage, thinly sliced into rings
8 (2 oz) jujubes (Chinese Red Dates), pitted and minced
¼ c dried shrimp, rehydrated and minced
2 c chicken stock
2 tbsp soy sauce

In a medium bowl, combine the rices and rinse under cold water until the water runs clear; set aside for later. In a medium saucepan, heat the peanut oil over medium heat. Add the ginger and green onions, and sweat until fragrant, 3 to 4 min.  Add the shiitakes and cook until tender, 5 min. Add the Chinese sausage, jujubes and dried shrimp, and cook for 3-4 min. Add the rinsed rice mixture and toast in the pan while stirring for 2 min. Add the chicken stock and soy sauce, and bring the mixture to a boil. Turn down the heat to a gentle simmer, scrape the bottom to dislodge any grains of rice stuck to the pan, cover with a lid and cook until the rice is completely tender, 20-25 min. Once the rice is cooked, cool completely.

Basting Sauce:
½ c Shaoxing wine
½ c oyster sauce
¼ c water
3 tbsp rock sugar
3 tbsp brown sugar
⅛ tsp ginger powder
1 pinch five-spice powder

 In a small saucepan, combine all the ingredients. Bring the mixture to a boil and reduce the heat to a simmer. Stir occasionally and continue to simmer until the liquid is reduced to a syrup consistency, 15-20 min. Set aside and let cool.
 
Finishing Sauce:
¼ c rock sugar
4 garlic cloves, minced
1" piece ginger, peeled and minced
1½ c chicken stock
1 tbsp dark soy sauce

While the basting sauce is reducing, make the finishing sauce: In a small saucepan, cook the rock sugar until it is completely melted and reaches a light caramel color, 3-4 min. Add the garlic and ginger, and cook for 1 min. Add the chicken stock, bring the mixture to a boil and reduce the heat to a simmer. Simmer until the sauce is a thin syrup consistency, 10-15 min. Turn off the heat, stir in the dark soy sauce and reserve for later.


Preheat ove n to 350F. Stuff the crevices of each hen with the chilled sticky rice mixture and tie the legs together with butcher's twine. Brush the hens completely with two-thirds of the cooled basting sauce and place them breast-sides up on the wire rack. Roast the hens for 45-50 min, baste with the remaining basting sauce and finish in the oven until their internal cooking temperature reaches 165F, 5-10 min. Let the hens rest for 5 min, then move to a serving platter whole or broken down. Serve with the prepared finishing sauce, any leftover sticky rice and steamed vegetables.
