Summer Vegetable Gratin
  --Cook's Illustrated

6 tbsp evoo
1 lb zucchini, ends trimmed and sliced crosswise into 1/4" thick slices
1 lb summer squash (yellow), ends trimmed and sliced crosswise into 1/4" thick slices
2 tsp salt
1 1/2 lb ripe tomatoes (3-4 large) sliced 1/4" thick
2 medium onions, halved lengthwise and sliced thin pole to pole (~3 c)
3/4 tsp black pepper
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 tbsp minced fresh thyme leaves
1 large slice white sandwich bread, torn into quarters
2 oz grated parmesan cheese (~1 c)
2 medium shallots minced (~1/4 c)
1/4 c chopped fresh basil leaves

Adjust oven rack to upper iddle position and heat to 400F. Brush 13x9" baking dish with 1 tbsp oil; set aside. Toss zucchini and summer squash slices with 1 tsp salt in large bowl; transfer to colander set over bowl. Let stand until zucchini and squash release at least 3 tbsp of liquid, ~45 min. Arrange slices on triple layer paper towels; cover with another triple layer paper towels. Firmly press each slice to remove as much liquid as possible. Place tomato slices in single layer on double layer paper towels and sprinkle evenly with 1/2 tsp salt; let stand 30 min. Place second double layer paper towels on top of tomatoes and press firmly to dry tomatoes. Heat 1 tbsp oil in 12" non-stick skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Add onions, remaining 1/2 tps salt, and 1/4 tsp pepper; cook, stirring occasionally, until onions are softened and dark golden brown, 20-25 min. Set onions aside. Combein garlic, 3 tbsp oil, remaining 1/2 tsp pepper, and thyme in small bowl. In large bowl, toss zucchini and summer squash in half of oil mixture, then arrange in greased baking dish. Arrange caramelized onions in even layer over squash. Slightly overlap tomato slices in single layer on top of onions. Spoon remaining garlic-oil mixture evenly over tomatoes. Bake until vegetables are tender and tomatoes are starting to brown on edges, 40-45 min. Meanwhile, process bread in food processor until finely ground, ~10 s. You should have ~1 c breadcrumbs. Combine breadcrumbs, remaining oil, parmesan, and shallots in medium bowl. Remove baking dish from oven and increase heat to 450F. Sprinkle breadcrumb mixture evenly over top. Bake gratin until bubbling and cheese is lightly browned, 5-10 min. Sprinkle with basil and let sit at room temperature 10 min before serving. 
