Sweet Potato Pecan Cinnamon Rolls
  --Jenné Claiborne

Dough:
1 c plain unsweetened soy (or other non-dairy) milk
1/4 c vegan butter
1 c mashed sweet potato (1 baked medium sweet potato)
3 c ap flour + more for dusting
1/4 c granulated sugar
1/4 oz package (2 1/4 tsp) active dry yeast
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 tsp grapeseed oil

In a small saucepan, warm the milk and butter over medium heat until butter melts; make sure not to boil (120F). Remove from the heat and stir in sweet potato. In a large bowl, mix together the flour, sugar, yeast, and salt. Pour liquid ingredients into dry and use a wooden spoon to combine. Once it gets too difficult to stir, use hands to combine. Dust a clean work surface and turn the dough out onto it. Knead it until the dough is smooth; make into a ball. Lightly oil a large bowl with grapeseed oil. Place the dough ball in it and cover with plastic wrap or a kitchen towel, and let rise for 1 hr. The dough should double in size. Once doubled, preheat oven to 375F. Press the air out of the dough, then transfer it back to floured work surface. Roll until it is ~1/4" thick. You should end up with a rugh rectangular oval, ~ 12x16". 

Filling:
1/2 c brown sugar, coconut sugar, or a mix of the 2
1/2 tbsp cinnamon
3/4 c toasted pecans
1/3 c vegan butter

In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar and cinnamon and set aside. Chop the pecans into small pieces and set aside. In a small saucepan, melt the butter and set aside.

Brush the dough with the melted butter, sprinkle with cinnamon sugar, and top with the pecans. Fold the short side of the dough over and roll rightly until you have a log. Carefully cut the log into 12x1" slices. Grease a large skillet or 10x10" baking dish, and place the rolls in it cut sides down. Bake for 25 min, or until they've expanded and turned slightly golden on top.

Frosting:
1/2 c vegan cream cheese
1/2 c confectioners' sugar
1/4 c mashed sweet potato (1/4 baked medium)
1/2 tsp vanilla

Place all ingredients in food processor or stand mixer with whisk attachement. Blend on high until creamy.

Remove rolls from the oven and let cool for 5-10 min. Top with frosting and serve immediately. Yields 12 rolls


notes: can sub butternut squash for sweet potato, looking for liquid to be 110F before combining with yeast
