Sweet Potato Lasagna  - gf, vegan
  --Minimalist Baker

3 large (~450g each) sweet potatoes, peeled and thinly sliced

Peel sweet potatoes and slice thinly with a very sharp knife or mandolin. They shouldn't be paper thin, but semi-thick and bendable ~1/8".

Ricotta Filling:
3-4 tbsp evoo
~1/2 tsp sea salt + black pepper to taste
2 medium lemons juiced (~1/3 c/80 ml)
12 oz extra firm tofu, drained and pressed dry for 10 min
3 tbsp nutritional yeast
1/2 c loosely packed fresh basil
1 tbsp dried oregano
1/4 c vegan parmesan cheese

Add all ingredients to a food processor or blender and pusle to combine, scraping down sides as needed. You are looking for semi-pureed mix with bits of basil still intact. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed.

Pesto Sauce:
1/2 c olive oil
1 c loosely packed basil, finely chopped
2 cloves garlic, finely minced 
1/4 c vegan parmesan cheese
1 healthy pinch each salt + pepper
water (to thin)

Add olive oil, basil, and garlic to a blender or food processor. Mix on medium-low to combine. Then add cheese, a pinch of salt and pepper, and pulse to combine again. Add water to thin until a pourable sauce is achieved, mixing on high until only small bits of basil and garlic remain. Taste and adjust seasoning as needed. (probably add more cheese and basil)

Preheat oven to 375F/190C. In a 9x13" dish, begin laying down the sweet potatoes in a single layer, overlapping slightly. Top with 1/3 ricotta mixture and spread using a spoon or spatula. Top with another layer of sweet potatoes, slightly overlapping. Repeat until you have 3 layers of ricotta, and 4 layers of sweet potatoes. Cover with foil and bake for 50 min. Remove foil, increase heat to 400F/204C and bake uncovered for another 5-10 min to slightly brown the top. Let lasgana cool slightly before serving. Top with pesto or serve alongside.


Notes: Keeps 3 days covered in fridge, best to freeze for longer term storage. Add more salt, pepper, nutritional yeast (for cheesiness) and lemon juice for brightness as desired/needed
