Sweet Cream Ice Cream
  --America's Test Kitchen

1/2 c + 1/3 c nonfat dry milk powder
1/3 c (2 1/3 oz) sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 c whole milk, divided
1 1/2 c heavy cream
1/4 c corn syrup
5 tsp cornstarch

Whisk milk powder, sugar, and salt together in small bowl. Whisk 1 1/4 c milk, cream, corn syrup, and sugar mixture together in large saucepan. Cook over medium-high heat, whisking frequently to dissolve sugar and break up any clumps, until tiny bubbles form around edge of saucepan and mixture registers 190 degrees, 5 to 7 min. Whisk cornstarch and remaining 1/4 c milk together in small bowl. Reduce heat to medium. Whisk cornstarch mixture to recombine, then whisk into milk mixture in saucepan. Cook, constantly scraping bottom of saucepan with rubber spatula, until mixture thickens, ~30 s. Immediately pour ice cream base through fine-mesh strainer into large bowl; let cool until no longer steaming, ~20 min. Cover bowl, transfer to refrigerator, and chill until base registers 40 F, at least 6 hr. (Base can be chilled overnight. Alternatively, base can be chilled to 40 F in ~1 1/2 hr by placing bowl in ice bath of 6 c ice, 1/2 c water, and 1/3 c table salt.)  Churn base in ice cream maker until mixture resembles thick soft serve and registers 21 F, ~30 minutes. Transfer ice cream to airtight container, pressing firmly to remove air pockets; freeze until firm, at least 2 hr. Serve.


Notes: This recipe can be used to make sweet cream ice cream or used as a base for making other flavors. If using a canister-style ice cream maker, be sure to freeze the empty canister for at least 24 hr (or preferably 48 hr) before churning. For self-refrigerating ice cream makers, prechill the canister by running the maker for 5-10 min before pouring in the base. We prefer Carnation Instant Nonfat Dry Milk. Some base may stick to the bottom of the saucepan when pouring it into the strainer; simply scrape it into the strainer with the rest of the base and press it through with a spatula. This ice cream can be frozen for up to five days.
