Swiss Chard and Kale Gratin
  --Cook's Illustrated
  
2 lb Swiss chard
1 lb curly kale, stemmed and cut into 1" wide strips
2 garlic cloves, peeled
4 oz rustic white bread, cut into 3/4" cubes (3 c)
5 tbsp evoo, divided
2 oz Parmesan cheese, grated (1 c)
3/4 tsp table salt, divided
1/2 tsp pepper, divided
1 onion, chopped coarse
1 1/2 tsp minced fresh thyme
1 c heavy cream
1/8 tsp ground nutmeg

Adjust oven rack to upper-middle position and heat oven to 375F. Stem chard, then cut stems into 2" lengths and set aside. Slice leaves into 1" wide strips. Bring 2 c water to boil in Dutch oven over high heat. Add kale, cover, and reduce heat to medium-high. Cook until kale is wilted, ~5 min, stirring halfway through cooking. Add chard leaves, cover, and continue to cook until chard is wilted, ~4 min longer, stirring halfway through cooking. Transfer to colander set in sink and let drain. (Do not wash pot.) Pulse garlic in food processor until coarsely chopped, 5-7 pulses. Add bread and 3 tbsp oil and pulse until largest crumbs are smaller than 1/4" (most will be much smaller), 8-10 pulses. Add Parmesan, 1/4 tsp salt, and 1/4 tsp pepper and pulse to combine. Transfer to bowl. Add onion and chard stems to now-empty processor and process until finely chopped, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, 20-30 s. Transfer to now-empty pot. Add thyme, remaining 2 tbsp oil, remaining 1/2 tsp salt, and remaining 1/4 tsp pepper. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until moisture has evaporated and mixture is just beginning to brown, 8-10 min. Using spatula, press gently on greens in colander to remove excess moisture. Transfer greens to pot with onion mixture. Add cream and nutmeg and stir to combine. Transfer mixture to 13x9" baking dish. Sprinkle bread-crumb mixture evenly over surface. Bake until topping is golden brown and filling bubbles around edges, 20-25 minutes. Let cool for 10 min before serving.


Notes: Filling and bread-crumb topping can be refrigerated in separate airtight containers for up to 24 hr. Increase baking time by 5-10 min. Do not use rainbow chard.
