Tagliatelle with Wild Mushrooms

Pasta Dough:
1 c + 2 tbsp (170 g) type 00 flour
7 tbsp (55g) durum flour
9 egg yolks
1 tbsp olive oil
2-3 tbsp water + more if needed

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, or on a work surface, combine both flours and make a well in the center. On medium speed, or using your fingers, mix in the egg yolks, oil, and water, adding them one ingredient at a time and mixing just intil the dough comes together, 2-3 min. If the dough seems dry, add another tbsp of water. Turn the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and using the palms of your hands, knead the dough until if feels silky and smooth, about 8-10 min. The dough it ready when it gently pulls back into place when it is slightly stretched. Shape the dough into a ball and then flatten the ball into a disk. Cover the dough with plastic wrap and let it rest at room temp for at least 30 min, or chill in the fridge up to 3 days.
To rool out the dough, cut it into 4 equal pieces. Let the pieces sit, covered, at room temp for 10 min if chilled. Shape each piece into an oval wide enough to fit the width of your pasta roller. Lightly flour 1 piece of dough, pass it through the roller and then lightly dust the rolled dough with flour, brushing off the excess with your hands. Pass the dough through the diest setting again. Lower the setting by 1 notch and continue to pass the dough through  until you've reached your desired thickness. For tagliatelle, roll the dough to about 1/8" thick. Fit the pasta machine with the appropriate cutter and run the pasta sheets through the cutter. Using floured hands, toss the pasta to keep from sticking. Cover the pasta and refrigerate it until ready to cook.


Mushroom Ragout
4 tbsp olive oil
1/2 finely diced medium yellow onion
4 c (8px) assorted mushrooms (ex. maitake, morels, king trumpets, etc) cut or torn into thin slices
1/4 c chicken stock
3 tbsp unsalted butter
1/4 c finely grated parmesean cheese + more for garnish
2 tbsp finely chopped flat-leaf parsley, divided
2 tsp finely chopped rosemary, divided


Bring a large pot of salted water to boil.
In a large skillet over medium heat, warm the oil. Add the onions and season with salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions are soft and translucent, 4-6 min. Add the mushrooms and cook until lightly browned and softended, 5-7 min. Season with salt and continue to cook for another 2-3 min. If the pan looks dry, add another tbsl of olive oil. Meanwhile, add the pasta to the boiling salted water and cook it two thirds of the way through, 10-20 sec. The pasta will finish cooking in the sauce. Drain the pasta, reserving 1/2 c pf the pasta cooking liquid. Add the pasta, chicken stock, butter, 1/4 c parmesean, and half the parsley and rosemary to the mushroom ragout and cook, thinning with the reserved pasta cooking liquid as needed, until the pasta is coated with sauce and cooked through, 3-4 min. Top with the remaining herbs and a sprinkly of parmesean.


