Tahchin (Baked Persian Rice...tahdig ftw)
 - Naomi Duguid
 
Filling:
3 tbsp unsalted butter
½ medium yellow onion, minced
1½ lbs boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 1" pieces
3 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp salt
2 tsp dried orange peel
½ c plain whole yogurt
1 egg

In a medium skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the onions and cook until translucent, 2-3 min. Add the chicken and cook, stirring occasionally until opaque, 10 min. Add the lemon juice and salt, and cook, partially covered, over medium-low heat until cooked, 10 min more. Remove from heat and let cool. Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, add the dried orange peel and cover with 2" water. Bring to a boil and cook for 2 min, then drain. Return the peel to the saucepan and cover again with 2" water. Bring to a boil, then remove from the heat and let sit for 5 min. Drain and mince.In a medium bowl, mix the minced orange peel with the yogurt. Add the cooled chicken and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 3 hr up to 24 hrs.

Rice:
3 c basmati rice, rinsed
3 tbsp kosher salt, divided
1 stick unsalted butter, melted, divided

Preheat the oven to 375°. Two hours before the chicken is finished marinating, place the rice in a large bowl with 2 tbsp of the salt and cover with water. Let the rice soak for 2 hrs, then drain. Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat and season with the remaining salt. Add the rice and cook until tender, but still chewy, 5 min, then drain.

Meanwhile, strain the chicken mixture of its marinade and reserve the marinating liquid in a medium bowl. Whisk in the egg until smooth. Add 3 c of the cooked rice and stir to coat. Grease a nonstick, ovenproof 12" pot with 2 tbsp of the melted butter. Lay the marinade-coated rice on the bottom of the pot and press the rice up the sides of the pot by 1½". Distribute the chicken pieces over the rice, leaving a 1" border, then top with the remaining cooked rice. Drizzle the remaining melted butter over the top layer of rice. Cover the pot tightly with a lid or foil and bake the rice for 45 min. Reduce the heat to 350° and bake for 45 min more. 

Topping:
1 c dried barberries
Parsley leaves, for garnish

Fill your sink with 2" of cold water and place the pot into the water for 5 min; this will help the rice release from the sides of pot. Remove from the sink and use a paring knife to separate the rice from the pot. Place a large plate or platter over the pot and invert the two so the tahchin falls onto the plate. Spoon the dried barberries on and around the tahchin, then garnish with parsley leaves and serve.


