Taiwanese Turkey Rice
  --Clarissa Wei

Turkey:
1 (4-lb) skin-on, bone-in turkey breast or 3 lb. shredded leftover cooked turkey
1 tbsp plus  1/2 tsp kosher salt (optional)
5 scallions, trimmed, halved (optional)
2" piece ginger, peeled, sliced 1/4" thick (optional)
8 whole star anise (optional)
1/4 c turkey stock or low-sodium chicken broth (optional)

If using a raw turkey breast, sprinkle turkey all over with salt; place on a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet and chill, uncovered, at least 6 hr and up to 1 day. (This will result in tender, flavorful meat.) Place turkey, scallions, ginger, and star anise in a stockpot. Pour in water to cover turkey by 1". Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer, skimming foam from surface as needed, until an instant-read thermometer inserted into thickest part of breast registers 150F, ~75 min. Transfer turkey to a cutting board and let sit until cool enough to handle (internal temperature should rise to 165F while the turkey cools). Strain stock through a fine-mesh sieve into a large heatproof bowl; discard solids. Pour 3 cups stock into a large heatproof measuring glass and set aside for sauce; reserve remaining stock for another use. Shred turkey with a fork or your hands, removing and discarding skin (or shred along with meat if you prefer). If starting with leftover turkey: Preheat oven to 350F. Spread turkey in an even layer on a rimmed baking sheet, drizzle stock over, and cover tightly with foil. Cook until warmed through, ~15 min.

Sauce:
1/2 cup high-quality lard, turkey fat, duck fat, or goose fat
16 shallots (~12 oz), shaved on a mandoline or very thinly sliced
1 head of garlic, finely chopped
1/4 c michiu (Taiwanese rice wine) or sake
1/4 c light shoyu
1/4 c sugar
2 tsp freshly ground white pepper, plus more
3 c low-sodium chicken broth (optional)
cooked white rice (for serving)

Heat lard in a medium saucepan over medium-low. Add shallots (it will not look like enough fat at first) and cook, stirring often, until softened into a single layer, then continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until golden brown, 20–25 min total. (Shallots will crisp as they cool.) Drain shallots in a fine-mesh sieve set over a heatproof bowl. Transfer shallots to paper towels to drain; set aside. (You don’t need to salt them.) Heat shallot fat in a medium saucepan over medium. Add garlic and cook, stirring often, until fragrant and just starting to color, about 3 minutes. Add michiu, shoyu, sugar, 2 tsp white pepper, and reserved 3 c stock (if you are using leftover turkey, use chicken broth instead). Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until sauce is reduced by half and glossy, ~25 min. Taste and add up to 2 1/2 tsp more white pepper if desired. To serve, divide rice among shallow bowls and pile shredded turkey over. Spoon 2–3 tbsp sauce over each bowl and top with reserved fried shallots.

