Tandori Chicken

1/4 c (6-8 cloves) roughly chopped garlic
1/4 c (3" piece) roughly chopped ginger
2 tsp canola oil
1/2 c whole fat greek yogurt
1/4 c lemon juice
2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp garam masala
1 tsp ground coriander
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp ground tumeric
1 tsp ground cardamom
12 tsp dried fenugreek leaf (kasoori methi) optional
2 lbs (~ 4) boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 4" pieces
1 c mesclin greens for garnish

Combine the chopped garlic and ginger in a food processor and pulse until almost smooth. In a small skillet, heat the canola oil over medium heat. Cook the garlic and ginger paste, stirring constantly, until fragrat and softened, 3-5 min. Transfer to a large bowl, along with the yogurt, lemon juice, salt, garam masala, coriander, cumin, tumeric, cardamom, and fenugreek leaf, if using. Add the chicken and, using your hands, massage the marinade into the meat, completely covering all of the pieces. Refrigerate for at least 4 hrs up to overnight.

Preheat the oven to broil with the rack about 5-6" from the heat source. Transfer the chicken to a foil lined baking sheet. Discard the leftover marinade. Broil until the chicken is cooked through with a few charred spots, 8-10min.

Orange Dressing:
4 c orange juice
2 tbsp fresh thyme
1/2 c evoo
pinch salt

In a medium saucepan, reduce the oj over medium heat to 1/2 c, 50-55 min, adding the thyme after 40 min of cooking. Strain the reduced oj into a small bowl and whisk in the olive oil and salt. Makes 1 c and can be made up to 1 day in advance. Bring to room temp 30 min before serving.

Mint chutney
1 c packed cilantro leaves
1 c packed mint leaves
4 (1/2 c) scallions, green parts only, roughly chopped
1/2 jalapeno, stemmed, seeded, and roughly chopped.
2 tsp sugar
1/4 c water
kosher salt to taste

In a blender, add all but the salt. Process on medium high speed until smooth. Transfer to a small bowl and adjust the seasoning to tast with salt. Makes 3/4 c.

Mango Garnish:
1/2 ripe mango, peeled and roughly chopped
1/2 tomato, finely chopped
1/2 english cucumber, finely chopped
1 tbsp lemon juice
kosher salt to taste

In a large bowl, combine all ingredients and season to taste with salt. Stir every so often until served.


To serve:
Place the mixed greens on a large platter and top with the chicken. Drizzle 1/2 c o the orange dressing on top, serving more on the side. Spoon the mango mixture over top and serve with the mint chutney
