Thai Meatballs
  --Nagi, recipetineats

Meatballs:
500 g / 1 lb pork mince (ground pork, or chicken)
1 tbsp lemongrass paste (or finely chopped fresh)
1 tsp grated ginger
3 cloves garlic, minced
3 kaffir lime leaves, stem removed and very finely shredded, optional extra
3 Thai or birds eye chillies, seeds removed and finely chopped
1/4 c coriander/cilantro, leaves and stem finely chopped
1 tsp sugar (any)
1 tbsp fish sauce (can sub with shoyu if required)
3/4 c panko breadcrumbs (+ extra 1/4 c if needed)
1 small egg
Oil spray

Preheat oven to 220C/430F (standard) or 200C/390F (fan / convection). Place a rack on a tray (optional, rack keeps balls slightly rounder). Place Meatball ingredients in a bowl (except oil spray), mix well with your hands. Only use extra breadcrumbs if necessary - sometimes, chicken mince can be quite wet. Scoop up 1 slightly heaped tbsp and roll into a ball (~3cm / 1.25" diameter). Spray rack well with oil and place the meatballs on the rack. Spray meatballs generously with oil, then bake for 20-25 min or until a bit browned. Serve warm with Sauce, garnished with coriander and chillies if desired.

Sweet chili sauce:
125ml/1/2 c water
2.5 tbsp sugar (any)
3 tbsp rice wine vinegar
1 long red chilli and 1 birds eye chilli (finely chopped,seeds reserved)
1 cm 2/5" ginger (julienned)
2 cloves garlic finely chopped
dash of fish sauce
1 tsp sriracha
1.5 tsp corn starch dissolved in 2 tsp water

Bring sugar and water to boil in small saucepan over medium heat. Add vinegar, chillies, ginger and garlic. Simmer, stirring occasionally until sugar is dissolved and liquid is reduced by a quarter. Add the fish sauce and stir in the chilli sauce. Drizzle in the corn starch slurry while continuously stirring over heat, until mixture thickens into thin syrup. Remove and allow to cool to room temperature, will thicken as it cools.

Note: can use store bought sweet chili sauce, doctor it up: 
1/2 c / 125 ml sweet chilli sauce, store bought
1 garlic clove , minced
2 tbsp lime juice

Place ingredients in a bowl and mix. Set aside for at least 10 minutes before using.
