Thin Crust Pizza
  --Cook's Illustrated
  
Dough:
3 c (16 1/2 oz) bread flour + more for work surface
2 tbsp sugar
1/2 tsp instant or rapid rise yeast
1 1/3 c ice water (~10 1/2 oz)
1 tbsp vegetable oil + more for work surface
1 1/2 tsp salt

In food processor fitted with metal blade, process flour, sugar, and yeast until combined, ~2 s. With machine running, slowly add water through feed tube; process until dough is just combined and no dry flour remains, ~10 s. Let dough stand 10 min. Add oil and salt to dough and process until dough forms satiny, sticky ball that cleaars sides of workbowl, 30-60 s. Remove dough from bowl and knead briefly on lightly oiled surface until smooth, ~1 min. Shape dough into tight ball and place in large, lightly oiled bowl. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 24 hr and to 3 days. 

Sauce:
28 oz can whole peeled tomatoes, drained and liquid discarded
1 tbsp evoo
1 tsp red wine veingar
2 medium garlic cloves, minced (~2 tsp)
1 tsp salt
1 tsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp ground black pepper

Process all ingredients in food processor until smooth, ~30 s. Transfer to medium bowl or container and refrigerate until ready to use.

Cheese:
1 oz finely grated parmesan cheese (~1/2 c)
8 oz whole milk mozzarella, shredded (~2 c)

Assembly:
One hour before baking pizza, adjust oven rack to second highest position (4-5" below broiler), set pizza stone on rack, and heat oven to 500F. Remove dough from refrigerator and divide in half. Shape each half into smooth, tight ball. Place on lightly oiled baking sheet, spacing them at least 3" apart; cover loosely with plastic wrap coated with nonstick cooking spray; let stand for 1 hr. Coat 1 ball of dough generously with flour and place on well floured surface. Using fingertips, gently flatten into 8" disk, leaving 1" of outer edge slightly thicker than center. Using hands, gently stretch disk into 12" round, working along edges and giving disk quarter turns as you stretch. Transfer dough to well floured peel and stretch into 13" round. Using back of spoon or ladle, spread 1/2 c of sauce in thin layer over surface of dough, leaving 1/4" border around edge. Sprinkle 1/4 c parmesan evenly over sauce, followed by 1 c mozarella. Slide pizza carefully onto stone and bake until crust is well browned and cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, 10-12 min, rotating pizza halfway through. Remove pizza and place on wire rack for 5 min before slicing and serving. Repeat with second pizza.


Notes: for other toppings, 6 oz max for hearty veggies, saute things like onions and mushrooms before to remove water; 4 oz of meats - also should pre-cook to eliminate fat
