Tom Yum Margherita Pizza
  --Mandy Lee
  
Dough:
1 c (235 g) water
3/4 c + 1 tbsp (200 g) plain yogurt
3 1/2 cups (500 g) bread flour + additional flour as needed
1 tbsp (8 g) roasted barley tea powder (roasted barley tea powderized in a spice grinder)
1/3 tsp instant dry yeast
2 tsp (13 g) fine sea salt
evoo for greasing

Mix water and plain yogurt together until even. In a stand mixer with dough hook attachment, add the yogurt mixture, bread flour, roasted barley tea powder, yeast, and salt. Mix on low until a cohesive dough forms, then knead on medium speed for 10-15 min, until the dough pulls away cleanly from the sides and bottom of the bowl when the machine is running, but sticks right back when the machine stops. The dough should be quite wet, smooth and shiny. Transfer to a lightly oiled container and let proof until doubled, then transfer into the fridge for at least 10 or up to 24 hr. (If the room is warmer than 70F/22C, I would let the dough do the first rise completely in the fridge.) If the dough hasn't doubled after 24 hr in the fridge, leave it in a warm place until doubled before moving on to the next step. One hr before serving, heat the oven with an inverted sheet pan to 500F/260C. After the oven is heated, move the inverted sheet pan to the upper level, a few inches below the broiler, and turn the broiler on high. While the oven is heating, gently scrape the dough onto a floured surface, taking care not to lose too many air bubbles. Divide the dough into two equal portions. Working with one portion at a time, fold the corners of the dough over itself from two or three different directions, then flip it over so the seam side is facing down. Transfer to a surface without flour, then cup your hands around the dough and scoop it gently toward you from a few different directions to tighten the dough. Transfer the dough to a large piece of lightly oiled parchment paper, generously flour the top, then cover with plastic wrap. Let proof for 1 1/2 - 2 hr, until it has doubled again.

Sauce + Assembly:
2x14 oz cans peeled plum tomatoes
3 lemongrass stalks (2 oz/58 g), finely sliced
3 small shallots, peeled
2 makrut lime leaves, with the central stem removed
2 1/2 tbsp finely chopped galangal (or substitute 3 tbsp chopped ginger)
2 tbsp freshly squeezed lime juice
1 tbsp light brown sugar
2 tsp fish sauce, plus more as desired
2 tbsp + 2 tsp evoo, divided
1 tsp Thai shrimp paste
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
5 to 8 makrut lime leaves

In a blender, combine the tomatoes and their juices, lemongrass, shallots, makrut lime leaves, galangal, lime juice, brown sugar, and fish sauce. Blend for a couple of minutes, until extremely smooth. In a large saucepan over medium heat, combine 2 tbsp of the evoo, Thai shrimp paste, and black pepper. Cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, until the paste has disintegrated into the oil and has slightly browned. Add the tomato mixture, mix well, and partially cover the pot with a lid. Turn the heat to medium-low and simmer until the liquid has reduced by two-thirds into a thick tomato sauce. Season with more fish sauce to taste. This sauce can be made 2 days ahead of time and kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container. Meanwhile, remove the central stems of the lime leaves and grind the leaves in a stone mortar until finely ground. Mix with the remaining 2 tsp of evoo and set aside.

Assembly:
2x4.5 oz balls fresh mozzarella
pickled chiles, finely diced
3 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
Thai dried shrimp chile oil
torn Thai basil or mint leaves, for serving (optional)

To test, dust the surface with flour and gently dent the dough with your finger. If the dent stays and does not bounce back, the dough is ready. Transfer one pizza dough to a well-floured surface and dust with more flour on top to prevent sticking. Use the knuckles on your fingers to gently and slowly dent the dough, pushing and spreading it from the center outward until it’s ~13" wide (it will shrink a bit during cooking). Think of it as if you’re pushing the air bubbles outward and concentrating them on the outer rim of the pizza. If you’re like me and like a pizza with a really puffed, bubbled, and chewy rim, then leave the rim slightly thicker than the rest of the dough. If the dough is resisting and springing back too much, just let it rest for another 5-10 min and continue. Arrange the dough into a disk on a pizza peel dusted with flour. Spread a layer of tom yum tomato sauce over the dough, leaving a thin margin of bare dough on the edge. Break the mozzarella into small chunks and spread them evenly over the sauce, then sprinkle with finely diced pickled chiles (I use about 2-3 per pizza) and thinly sliced garlic (about 1 1/2 cloves per pizza) evenly on top. Heat a pizza stone, or large flat cast-iron griddle (what I typically use), or a heavy pizza pan on the stove over high heat, until it starts to smoke. Gently slide the pizza onto the hot stone/griddle/pan and transfer it onto the oven rack just below the broiler. Bake until the pizza is puffed, golden, and charred in some spots, ~5 min, watching carefully. Prep and bake the second pizza. Drizzle generously the Thai shrimp chile oil on each pizza, followed by the makrut lime leaf oil, for fragrance. Top with torn Thai basil or mint leaves, if using, and serve immediately.


