Tortilla de Patatas (Potato Tortilla)

3-4 (1 1/4-1 1/2lbs) yukon gold potatoes
1 small onion
1 c olive oil
6 extra large or 7 large eggs
salt and freshly ground black pepper

Peel potatoes and onion and slice them very thin with a mandoline, the slicing blade of a food processor, or by hand. If either are on the large side, first cut them in half lengthwise so the slices will be in half moons. Heat oil in a 8-10" skillet, ideally nonstick, over medium high until very hot, ~ 3 min. Add potatoes and onions in even layers and reduce heat to medium low. Cook for 15 min, flipping and nudging potatoes around to ensure they cook evenly. Potatoes are done when they are tender when pierced with the tip of a knife. They should not get brown or fall apart in flipping. Transfer to a colander set over a bowl and drain them. Season potatoes and onion with salt and pepper and let cool slightly, ~5 min. In the bottom of a large bowl, lightly beat eggs with a couple good pinches of salt and freshly ground black pepper. Stir in drained potatoes and onions. Let soak for 10 min. Add 2 tbsp of drained cooking oil back to the skillet over medium high heat. Pour potato mixture into skillet and flatten the potatoes with a spatula until they're mostly even. Reduce heat to medium low. Cook, moving and shimmying the skillet and nudging the egg around so it runs underneath for a minute before letting the tortilla cook undisturbed until the top is wet but not very runny, and it's golden underneath. Loosen the tortilla with a spatula, then slide it ont a large dinner plate. With your hands in potholders, invert the skillet over the plate, take a deep breath, and flip it back into teh skillet. Shake the skillet to straighten the tortilla and use a spatula to gently tuck the edges back under, if needed. Return the skillet to the stove and cook tortilla to your desired doneness, 2-3 min if you like a slightly loose center, 3-4 min for full doneness. Slide onto a plate and serve in wedges. Can dust with smoked paprika, squiggle of aioli.
