Tres Leches Cake

1 c ap flour
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp salt
5 whole eggs
1 c sugar, divided
1 tsp vanilla
1/3 c milk
1 can evaporated milk
1 can sweetened, condensed milk
1/4 c heavy cream

Preheat oven to 350F. Spray a 9x13" pan liberally until coated. Combine flour, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Separate eggs. Beat egg yolks with 3/4 c sugar on high speed until yolks are pale yellow. Stir in milk and vanilla. Pour egg yolk mixture over flour mixture and stir very gently until combined. Beat egg whites on high speed until soft peaks for. With the mixer on, pour in remaining 1/4 c of sugar and beat until egg whites are stiff but not dry. Fold egg whites into the batter very gently until just combined. Pour into prepared pan and spread to even out the surface. Bake for 35-45 min until a toothpick comes out clean. Turn cake out onto a rimmed platter and allow to cool. Combine condensed milk, evaporated milk, and heavy cream in a small pitcher. When cake is cool, pierce the surface with a fork several times. Slowly drizzle all but ~1 c of the milk mixture - try to get as much around the edges as you can. Allow the cake to absorb the milk for 30 min. 


Icing:
1 pint heavy cream
3 tbsp sugar

Whip ingredients together until thick and spreadable. Spread over the surface of the cake and serve. Traditional has maraschino cherries, either whole or chopped up.

Notes: From other recipes, the direction is to pour the milk over the cake when it is warm, not hot, not cold, and let it soak overnight. Some even say to flip it before spreading whipped cream and serving.


America's Test Kitchen version

Milk Mixture:
14 oz can sweetened condensed milk
12 oz can evaporated milk
1 c heavy cream
1 tsp vanilla

Pour condensed milk into large microwave safe bowl and cover tightly with plastic. Microwave on low power, stirring and replacing plastic every 3-5 min, until slightly darkened and thickened, 9-15 min. Remove from microwave and slowly whisk in evaporated milk, cream, and vanilla. Let cool to room temp.

Cake:
2 c ap flour
2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp salt
1/2 tsp cinnamon
8 tbsp (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 c whole milk
4 large eggs, room temp
2 c sugar
2 tsp vanilla

Adjust rack to middle position and heat to 325F. Grease and flour 13x9" baking pan. Whisk flour, baking powder, salt, and cinnamon in bowl. Heat butter nad milk in small saucepan over low heat until butter is melted; set aside off heat. With electric mixer on medium speed, beat eggs in large bowl for ~30 s, then slowly add sugar until incorporated. Increase speed to medium high and beat until egg mixture is very thick and glossy, 5-7 min. Reduce speed to low and slowly mix in melted butter mixture and vanilla. Add flour mixture in 3 additions, scraping down bowl as necessary, then mix on medium speed until fully incorporated, ~30 s. Using rubber spatula, scrape batter into prepared pan and bake until toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, 30-35 min. Transfer cake to wire rack and let cool 10 min. Using skewer, poke holes t 1/2" intervals in top of cake. Slowly pour milk mixture over cake until completely absorbed. Let sit at room temp 15 min, then refrigerate uncovered 3 hrs or up to 24 hrs.

Frosting:
1 c heavy cream
3 tbsp corn syrup
1 tsp vanilla

Remove cake from refrigerator 30 min before servinc. With electric mixer on medium speed, beat heavy cream, corn syrup, and vanilla to soft peaks, 1-2 min. Frost cake and slice into 3" squares. Serve.

The assembled cake can be refrigerated for up to 3 days.
