Triple Chocolate Sticky Buns
  --Cook's Country

Paste:
1/4 c ap flour
2/3 c whole milk

whisk flour and paste in microwave safe bowl; microwave for up to 75 s, taking out every 25 s and whisk, until you get a thick paste. 

Dough:
2/3 c whole milk
1 egg + 1 yolk
3 1/4 c ap flour
2 1/4 tsp instant yeast
3 tbsp sugar
1 1/2 tsp salt
6 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 6 pieces at room temp

Transfer to stand mixer, milk and whisk. Add egg + yolk, whisk to combine. Add flour and instant yeast. Put dough hook on, mix until no flour is left, 1-2 min. Cover with a towel and let sit for 15 min. Add sugar and tsp salt. Knead on med low speed for 5 min. Add butter, mix for another 5 min on med low speed. Sprinkle flour on work surface, turn dough out and knead into a large ball. Spray large bowl with sooking spray, put ball seam side down, and cover with plastic wrap. Let rise at room temp for 1 hr.

Topping:
3/4 c packed brown sugar
1/4 c dark corn syrup
6 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
2 tbsp water
1/4 tsp salt
1 tbsp cocoa powder

Put all ingredients in a bowl and whisk to combine; pour into 13x9" pan, that's been sprayed with cooking spray and spread into an even layer. Set aside.

Filling:
4 oz bittersweet chocolate, chopped fine
4 tbsp unsalted butter

Place in a microwae safe bowl and microwave 2 min at 50% power until melted, stirring occationally. Put in refrigerator for 20 min.

Assemble:
1 c milk chocolate chips
flour for dusting

Preheat oven to 375 F. Sprinkle a little flour on worksurface, turn dough out. Stretch dough out to 18x15". Spread chocolate filling on to dough using offset spatula, leaving a 1" border on the top. Sprinkle milk chocolate chips over the chocolate ganache. Roll, starting from the closest long edge, don't roll too tightly. Pinch to seal and roll over onto the seam. Slice into 12 buns using a serrated knife. Place cut side down, 3 rows of 4. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise an hour. If you want to make this ahead, can put them in the refrigerator at this point for 8-24 hr, pull out and bring to room temp for 30 min. Bake buns for 20 min, then cover with foil and continue to bake for 15 min longer, until center bun hits 200F. Once out ofthe oven, run a knife around the edge to loosen, place a platter over the pan and invert the pan; remove pan to reveal buns (use an offset spatula for leverage). Let buns cool for 15 min before serving.


