Turkey Dinner Kolaches
  --Martin Earl

Dough:
1 1/4 C lukewarm—95–100F (36–38C)—milk, divided
2 1/2 tsp instant yeast or active dry yeast
1 tbsp sugar
3 1/4 C (390g) ap flour
6 tbsp unsalted butter, softened (you can soften butter by beating it repeatedly with a rolling pin)
1 large egg
3/4 tsp fresh-ground black pepper
3/4 tsp salt

Combine the sugar, yeast, 1/4 c flour, and 1/4 c milk n a small bowl. Set aside to allow it to activate for ~15 min. In the bowl of a stand mixer, combine the yeast mixture and the remaining dough ingredients. Mix with the dough hook, kneading until the dough is smooth and supple. The dough will still seem sticky and somewhat slack. That is ok! Scrape the dough out onto an oiled surface. Using a scale, portion out the dough into 3 oz portions. Roll each portion into a ball on the countertop using a cupped palm. Set each dough ball on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Set the dough balls aside, covered, to proof and rest for 30 min. 

Filling:
Leftover turkey (~1 c)
Leftover stuffing (~1/2 c)
Mashed potatoes (~1/2 c)
Congealed gravy (~3/4 c)
Cranberry sauce, homemade or canned
Any other Thanksgiving leftovers you want to be in there

Remove any skin from the turkey as well as any non-edible bits of bone, etc., then chop it into ~1/4″ pieces.  Combine turkey, mashed potatoes, stuffing, and gravy in a bowl. Mix it all up by hand, then warm a spoonful of it up to check for balance and seasoning. Have the cranberry sauce close at hand. Preheat your oven to 350F (177C).  To fill a kolache, take one ball of dough, and flatten it into a round, ~6" across. Spoon 1–2 tsp cranberry sauce into the center of the round and top with 1–2 tbsp turkey filling. Pull two opposite sides up over the filling and pinch them together, then pull the two other sides up and pinch the whole thing together. Pinch and twist the seam together and set the kolache, seam-side down, back on the pan. Fill the remaining kolaches the same way. Put the kolaches in the oven and bake for 15–25 min. Set a timer to know when to check their temp. The wide window for the time accounts for how much filling you use as well as how cold that filling is. Check internal temp, looking for 165F, once they reach that and are golden brown, pull from the oven. Let cool a few minutes before serving. Can serve with cranberry sauce and/or warmed up gravy.



Notes: made 12 portions, I made without mashed pototoes, just added more turkey/stuffing. 
