Turkey Biria
  --Rick Martinez

1 large turkey carcass + skin and any vegetables or herbs stuffed in the cavity (meat removed and reserved)
3 large chiles guajillos (0.6 oz/18 g), stemmed and seeded
2 large chiles pasillas (0.4 oz/12 g), stemmed and seeded
4 chiles de árbol, stemmed (and seeded for mild)
1/2 medium white or yellow onion
8 garlic cloves, peeled
2 tbsp + 1 1/2 tspg Diamond Crystal kosher salt (1.1 oz/30 g) + more to taste
1 tbsp black peppercorns
3 dried or fresh avocado or bay leaves
2 whole cloves
1 small stick canela or cassia cinnamon
1/2 tsp whole cumin seeds
1/2 tsp dried marjoram or Mexican oregano

For serving: chopped onion, cilantro, lime wedges, warm corn tortillas

Cover turkey carcass, skin, any vegetables or herbs stuffed in the cavity, chiles guajillos, chiles pasillas, chiles de árbol, onion, garlic and salt with water in a large stock pot and bring to a boil over high heat. Meanwhile, toast the spices. Toast peppercorn, avocado leaves, cloves, canela, cumin and coriander in a medium skillet over medium high, swirling the skillet or tossing the herbs and spices, until lightly charred and very fragrant, ~1 min. Add the marjoram and toast, tossing frequently until marjoram is very fragrant and lightly toasted, ~30 s. Transfer to the stock pot with the turkey and chiles. Reduce stock to a low boil and cook, uncovered until stock is very flavorful, and the bones separate easily from the bones. Strain stock through a fine mesh sieve into a large bowl, reserve stock and chiles. If you want to reserve any of the vegetables, herbs or spices, you will be adding lots of flavor to the broth but it is completely optional, I want to make this as easy as possible! Transfer chiles any vegetables, herbs or spices and 4 c of the stock to the jar of a blender and puree until smooth. Wipe out stock pot with a paper towel and transfer chile puree and strained stock into the pot and stir to combine. Bring to a simmer. Chop or shred any leftover turkey meat. And add to the simmering stock. Cook 20 min, stirring occasionally, until the flavors have melded and the meat is very tender. Taste and season with salt if necessary.  

Cranberry Salsa:
1 c leftover cranberry sauce
1/4 chopped white onion
1-3 chopped jalapeños
1 garlic clove, finely grated
1 tsp orange zest (optional)
1-2 tbsp orange juice (optional)

Stir cranberry sauce, onion, jalapeño, garlic, orange zest and orange juice in a medium bowl until thoroughly combined. Taste and season with salt or lime juice if necessary.

To serve:
Divide the meat among shallow bowls and pour the consommé over. Top with the chopped onion and cilantro. Serve with lime wedges for squeezing, cranberry salsa and tortillas to make tacos.



Notes: I made it with turkey stock I had on hand, simmered it with all the herbs and chiles, cooked chicken thighs in it and shredded that meat.
