Vegetarian Bastilla
  --Angela Nilsen

Bastilla:
2 tsp cpriander seeds
2 tsp cumin seeds
1 tsp paprika + extra for dusting
1/2 tsp cinnamon
150ml (1/4 pint) olive oil
900g squash, peeled and cut into small chunks (~2cm)
12 shallots, quartered
1 1/2" (4cm) ginger, finely chopped
140g whole blanched almonds
140g shelled pistachios
75g dried cranberries
6 tbsp clear honey
225g fresh spinach
400g can chickpeas, drained and rinsed
2 garlic cloves
1 tsp ground cumin
3 tbsp lemon juice
4 tbsp chopped cilantro (coriander)
100g butter
8 large sheets of filo pastry
lemon wedges to serve

Preheat oven to 180C; dry fry the seeds briefly in a small pan over medium heat until toasty - don't let them burn. Grind coarsely, then mix in the paprika, cinnamon, 1/2 tsp salt, and 4 tbsp oil. Tip the squash into a roasting pan, pour over the spiced oil and toss. Roast for 20 min. Meanwhile, heat 2 tbsp oil in frying pan, add the shallots and cook, stirring, until they start to brown. Stir in ginger, and 100g/4oz each almonds and pistachios. When brown, toss in the cranberries, 2 tbsp honey, and the spinach so it wilts. Take off the heat and stir into the squash when it comes out of the oven. Set aside. In a food processor, whizz the chickpeas with the garlic, cumin, remaining oil, lemon juice, 2 tbsp water, and salt and pepper to make hummus. Stir in coriander. Melt butter in a small pan. Put a loose-bottomed 28cm quiche tin on a baking sheet and brush with some butter. Keeping the filo covered with a damp cloth so it doesn't dry out, lay one sheet over half of the tin so that it hangs over the edge by ~10cm. Lay another sheet on the other side, so it overlaps the first in the center and hangs over the opposite edge. Brush with butter. Lay 2 more sheets in the opposite direction in the same way and brush with more butter. Build up 2 more layers in this way, using up the 8 sheets. Pile half the squash mixture in the center of the pastry. Spread the hummus over it and then add the rest of the squash mixture. One at a time, bring the edge of each sheet up to the center to cover the filling, creating voluptuous fold as you go. Brush carefully with more butter. If making a day ahead, cover with plastic wrap and chill. Bake for 30-35 min (or 35-40 if pulling from fridge), until crisp and golden. Just before it's ready, reheat any remaining butter in the pan, tip in the rest of the nuts and fry until golden. Spoon in remaining 3 tbsp honey and, when it melts, take off the heat and pour over the pie.

Yogurt Sauce:
200g greek yogurt
6 tbsp milk
3 large mint sprigs, leaves chopped
2-3 tbsp harissa paste

Combine yogurt and milk to make thin sauce, add mint and harissa.

Serve with lemon wedges and yogurt sauce

