Vegan Pasta Alfredo
  -Iosune

4 oz gf uncooked spaghetti
1 tsp evoo
1 clove garlic, minced
3/4 c unsweetened almond milk
1 c raw cauliflower, chopped
salt a freshly ground black pepper to taste
1 tbsp nutritional yeast
1/2 tbsp lemon juice

Cook pasta al dente per package instructions. Heat oil in a frying pan and cook the garlic over medium high heat for 3-4 min or until golden brown. Add the almond milk and bring to a boil. Lower the heat, add cauliflower, salt, and peper, and cook for ~7 min or until the cauliflower is soft. Transfer to a blender, add the nutritional yeast and lemon juice. Blend until smooth. Drain the pasta and pour it into the pan with the sauce. Stir and serve.

Notes: Can garnish with dried oregano. Can also use regular pasta. To make sauce creamier, add 1 tbsp tahini. For gf pasta, brown rice or buckwheat pasta taste better. 


v2 
  --Brandi, The Vegan8
  
1 medium white onion, diced (200g) (MAKE SURE to measure out 1 1/2 c b/c this is where lots of flavor comes)
1-2 c (240-480g) low sodium vegetable broth, divided
1/2 tsp salt
1/4-1/2 tsp ground black pepper
4 x-large (15g) minced garlic cloves
1/2 heaping c (75g) raw unsalted cashews (see NOTE)
1-2 tbsp lemon juice (start with just 1 and taste after blended!)
2-4 tbsp nutritional yeast

Add the onion and ONLY 1 c of the broth to a large pan over medium to medium-high heat. Cook for ~8 min until the onion is very tender. (Add a tiny bit more broth if it is cooking too fast or turn the heat down, so the onions don't burn) After 8 min, add the garlic and cook a couple of minutes more, stirring often. All of the broth should have evaporated by now. If not, keep letting it cook until the broth is GONE. You don't want any more liquid once it's done cooking, so the end result is thick and creamy. Add the cooked veggies (the onion and garlic) to a blender. Start out by adding JUST 1/2 c more of the remaining broth and add the remaining ingredients (salt, pepper, cashews, starting with JUST 1 tbsp lemon juice, nutritional yeast-starting with just 2 tbsp yeast). Blend on high for a couple of minutes until very creamy and smooth. Add any more broth to reach desired consistency, if necessary. I did not. If you don't add more broth, you would likely not need any more yeast. Taste and add any more salt & pepper or lemon, if desired.


Notes: nooch is optional. If you are using raw cashews and you don't have a high-powered blender, then you must soak them overnight in a bowl of water, drain and rinse. Otherwise, your result will be gritty and NOT creamy. A food processor usually works better with soaked cashews versus a blender that isn't very powerful.
