Vegan Lentil Fesenjan
  --Minimalist Baker
  
1 c raw walnuts
2-4 tbsp pomegranate molasses 
1/4 c water (or sub 1/2 the amount in olive or avocado oil)
1 large yellow onion, finely chopped
1/4 tsp each sea salt and black pepper (+ more to taste)
2 1/2 c vegetable broth (or store-bought)
1 c rinsed uncooked brown or green lentils*
1-2 tbsp maple syrup (or sub coconut sugar // + more to taste)
1/2 tsp ground turmeric (+ more to taste)
1/2 tsp cinnamon (+ more to taste)

Preheat oven to 350F. Spread walnuts out on baking sheet and bake for 10 min, careful not to burn. Once walnuts are done roasting, let cool slightly then add to food processor or high-speed blender and pulse into a fine meal; set aside. Heat an extra-large rimmed skillet or pot over medium heat and add water (or oil) and onions. Season with a pinch each salt and pepper and stir. Cook for 4-5 min, or until soft and translucent. Add vegetable broth and bring to a simmer (starting with the lesser amount and adding more later as needed). Add lentils and stir. Cook uncovered for ~20 min, or until lentils are just tender, stirring occasionally. Add more vegetable broth as needed to keep the lentils submerged. Once the lentils are just tender, add walnut meal, pomegranate molasses (start with the lesser amount and work your way up - store-bought can be more intense in flavor), maple syrup, and spices. Stir to combine and bring to a simmer. Then reduce heat to low and continue simmering for 10 min, or until thickened and fragrant. Stir occasionally. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed, adding more maple syrup or pomegranate molasses for sweetness, salt for saltiness, turmeric for earthiness, or cinnamon for warmth. You can also add more vegetable broth at this time if it’s become too thick. Serve over rice and garnish with pomegranate arils and fresh chopped parsley. Can be stored in refrigerator for 3-4 days or in freezer for up to 1 month.


To make pomegranate molasses:
Add 1 c (240 ml) pomegranate juice (adjust amount if adjusting serving size) to small saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Continue cooking for ~30 min, or until darkened in color and reduced to roughly 1/4 c (60 ml // amount as original recipe is written // adjust if altering batch size). Reduce heat to medium-low if bubbling too vigorously. Once reduced, turn off heat and set aside.
