Vegan Ramen with Roasted Vegetables and Miso Broth

Broth:

1 small eggplant
1 medium skin on yellow onion, split in half
2 whole heads garlic
1 4" knob ginger cut into 1/4-1/2" slices lengthwise
1 tbsp vegetable/canola oil
stems from 6 oz fresh shiitake mushrooms (caps quartered and reserved for shiitake soy sauce)
stiff bottom stems from 6oz maitake or beech mushrooms (caps and tender stems reserved for roasted mushroom and sweet potatoes)
1 6" segment kombu
1/2 oz dried prcini mushrooms
1/2 oz dried shiitake mushrooms
6 leaves napa cabbage
1 leek, roughly chopped
6 scallions, roughly chopped

Adjust oven rack to 4-6" below broiler element and preheat broiler to high. Toss eggplant, onion, garlic, and ginger with 1 tbsp oil until coated on all surfaces. Transfer to a foil lined broiler pan or rimmed baking sheet. Broil, turning vegetables occasionally until all are well charred on all surfaces and eggplant is completely tender (a knife inserted into it should meet no resistance around the stem or base). Remove from oven, lower rack to center position, and adjust the temp to 400F. Wrap eggplant in foil and reserve for topping. Transfer onions, ginger, and garlic to a large stock pot or dutch oven. Add shiitake and maitake mushroom stems, kombu, the dried shiitake and porcini mushrooms, cabbage, leek, and 6 scallions. Cover with water by 1". Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce to a bare simmer, cover, and cook while making remaining toppings ~ 1.5hrs.

Toppings:

1 medium sweet potato cut into 1/2" dice
caps and tender stems from 6 oz maitake or beech mushrooms
2 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tbsp shichimi togarashi + more to serve
kosher salt

Toss the sweet potato pieces and mushrooms bits in a large bowl with 2 tbsp oil, 1 tbsp togarashi, and a big pinch of salt. Transfer to a foil lined rimmed baking sheet and roast until potatoes are tender and all are browned around the edges ~ 25min. Remove from oven and let cool.

Shiitake-Soy Tare:

caps from 6 oz fresh shiitake mushrooms, quartered
1 6" segment kombu
1 4" knob ginger, cut into 1/4-1/2" slices lengthwise
6 scallions very roughly chopped
6 medium cloves garlic unpeeled
1/2 c soy sauce
1/2 c mirin

Combine mushroom caps, kombu, ginger, scallions, garlic, ginger, soy sauce, and mirin in a small saucepan. Bring to a bare simmer, cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until liquid is reduced by about half and mushrooms are very tender and flavorful, ~ 30 min. Discard kombu, ginger, scallions, and garlic. Strain mushrooms through a fine mesh strainer set in a liquid measuring cup. Reserve mushrooms and cooking liquid separately.

Mushroom Scallion Oil

1/2 oz dried porcini mushrooms
1/2 oz dried shiitake mushrooms
6 scallions very roughly chopped
1/2 c vegetable/canola oil

Combine all ingredients in a small saucepan. Place over medium heat and cook, stirring, until scallions and mushrooms are releasing a thin, steady stream of bubbles. Remove from heat, cover, and set aside to infuse.

Charred Eggplant topping

1 tbsp sesame seeds
eggplant from broth

Unwrap eggplant and slit skin lengthwise. Use a spoon to scoop out the flesh and transfer it to a salad spinner. Discard the skin. Spin eggplant to remove excess liquid. Add the liquid to the pot of stock. Transfer flesh to a small bowl and stir in sesame seeds and 1 tbsp of shiitake-soy tare. Season to taste with salt.

Finish the broth:
Strain broth through a fine-mesh strainer or chinois into a clean pot. Reserve the garlic heads and discard remaining vegetables. Cut the top off the garlic heads and squeeze out the cloves. Discard skins. Transfer garlic and 1/2 c of roasted sweet potato to a blender. Add 1 c strained stock. Blend, starting on low and increasing to high, until completely smooth, ~ 1min. Whisk garlic/sweet potato mixture into broth. Makes 2quarts+. Season to taste with salt - keep in mind soy and miso will be added later.

For Serving:

1/4 c white or yellow miso paste
3 tbsp japanese sesame paste or tahini
2 medium cloves garlic finely minced
4-6 servings ramen noodles
1 c very thinly sliced scallions or Tokyo negi

In a small bowl, stir together miso paste, sesame paste, minced garlic, and 6 tbsp tare. Bring a large pot of salted water to boil over high heat. Heat stock until just under a simmer on the stovetop. Preheat 6 serving bowls in the oven for 2 min. Remove from oven. Divid miso mixture evenly among the 6 bowls. Add 1 1/2 c hot broth to each bowl and stir gently to incorporate miso mixture. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt or tare if necessary. Cook ramen noodels in the boiling water for 90 sec. Drain carefully and divide evenly between the bowls. Drizzle each bowl with 1 tbsp of the mushroom-scallion oil. Top with simmered shiitake caps, roasted sweet potato, roasted mushroom, eggplant mixture, and scallions. Sprinkle iwth more shichimi togarashi if desired and serve immediately.
