Vegan Mushroom Stroganoff
  --Terri Edwards

Stroganoff:
1 lb whole grain pasta, fettuccine or penne work well
1/4 c veggie broth or water
1 c onion, diced
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 lb mushrooms of choice, Portobello, button, or others
1 tsp rosemary
1 tsp thyme
salt & pepper to taste
1/2 c dry white wine
2 c Tofu Sour Cream, recipe below
1 Tbsp fresh chopped parsley or flakes

Begin by putting pasta on to cook according to package directions. While this is cooking start the mushroom stroganoff. In a large skillet, saute diced onion in 3 Tbsp of veggie broth or water ~5 min or until tender. Add more veggie broth, 1 tbsp at a time, if needed to keep from sticking. Add minced garlic, and cook another minute, adding more veggie broth if needed. Stir in mushrooms, thyme, rosemary, salt/pepper, and dry white wine. Cook on medium-low heat for ~15 min. While this is cooking, make tofu sour cream in a blender. Drain cooked pasta and set to the side. Add tofu sour cream to stroganoff mixture, along with cooked pasta. Stir well. Remove from heat. Garnish with parsley and serve warm. 

Tofu Sour Cream:
1 package tofu, firm silken
2 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp vinegar (red wine or apple cider work well)
1 clove garlic, (~1 tsp)
1/4 tsp salt, or to taste

Open tofu container and drain and press the water out. Blend all ingredients in a blender until creamy, scraping down sides of the blender as needed. Serve on baked potatoes, tacos, or enchiladas. Recipe makes approximately one pint of sour cream. 2 c will be used in this stroganoff recipe. Sour cream keeps in the refrigerator for ~10 days.

V2
  --Claire Cary

12 oz rotini/fusilli pasta
1 lb 16 oz or 2 standard containers sliced baby bella mushrooms
1 large yellow onion
5 large cloves garlic
1/2 cup cashew cream
4 tbsp nutritional yeast
2 tbsp flour (ap, brown rice, etc)
4 c beef imitation broth
2 tbsp olive oil or dairy free butter
1/2 c dry white wine
3 tbsp low sodium shoyu or tamari
1/4 tsp black pepper
1/4 tsp salt see notes
1 tbsp lemon juice
1/2 tsp dried thyme
2 large bay leaves

Finely chop the onion and add to a pot with the olive oil. Saute for ~5 min or until the onion looks translucent. Add in the mushrooms and minced garlic and saute until the mushrooms soften, ~5 min. Add in the white wine and let simmer until the liquid is cooked off. Stir in the flour until no large clumps remain. Add all remaining ingredients and stir to incorporate. Bring to a boil then reduce heat to medium/low. Cover with a lid (but keep it slightly ajar) let simmer for 10-15 min or until all liquid is absorbed, stirring 2-3 times throughout the simmering. If it seems too liquidy, remove the lid and let simmer until the liquid cooks off or stir in extra flour to absorb the liquid. Taste, and if the pasta is not cooked to your liking, add in another 1/2 c of hot broth and let simmer until absorbed. Alternatively, if you want less liquid in the final sauce, whisk in an additional tbsp of flour. Discard the bay leaves and add more salt and pepper as needed. I also often whisk in an additional 1-2 tbsp of shoyu. Serve with red pepper flakes and chopped parsley.


Cashew cream:

1 c raw cashews
1/2-3/4 c water
1/4 tsp salt

Sweet: 
2 tbsp maple syrup more or less to taste
1 tsp vanilla
1/4 tsp cinnamon

Savory:
1 clove garlic
1 tbsp lemon juice
1/4 tsp onion powder
1/4 tsp salt
1/4 tsp black pepper
Optional: fresh or dried herbs of choice rosemary, thyme, cilantro etc.

Add the cashews to a small pot and cover with water. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium/low and let simmer for ~20 min. This will really soften the cashews and make them easier to blend. After 20 min, drain and rinse the cashews and add to a blender with 1/2 c of water and the salt. Blend until completely smooth. Add an additional 1/4 c to 1/2 c more water to get the consistency you like. Add in any of the sweet or savory seasonings at this time if you're using them. Blend for ~1 full min to ensure it's really smooth. Transfer to a container with a lid and store in the fridge for up to 1 week.

Notes: 
