Vegetable Lasagne
  --Cook's Illustrated

Tomato Sauce:
28 oz can crushed tomatoes
1/4 c chopped fresh basil
2 tbsp evoo
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tsp kosher salt
1/4 tsp crushed red pepper flakes

Whisk all ingredients together in bowl; set aside.

Cream Sauce:
4 oz grated parmesan cheese (2 c)
1 c whole milk cottage cheese
1 c heavy cream
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tsp cornstarch
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp pepper

Whisk all ingredients together in bowl; set aside.

Filling:
1 1/2 lbs eggplant, peeled, cut into 1/2" cubes (~7 c)
1 lb zucchini cut into 1/2" pieces (~ 4 c)
1 lb yellow squash cut into 1/2" pieces (~4 c)
salt and freshly ground black peper
5 tbsp + 1 tsp evoo
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 tbsp minced fresh thyme
12 oz baby spinach (~12 c)
12 no boil lasagne noodles
1/2 c minced pitted kalamata olives
12 oz low moisture whole milk mozzarella shredded (~3 c)
2 tbsp chopped fresh basil

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 375F. Toss eggplant with 1 tsp salt in large bowl. Line surface of large plate with double layer of coffee filters and lightly spray with vegetable oil spray. Spread eggplant in even layer over filters. Wipe out and reserve now-empty bowl. Microwave eggplant, uncovered, until dry to touch and slightly shriveled, ~10 min, tossing once halfway through to ensure that eggplant cooks evenly. Let cool slightly. Return eggplant to bowl and toss with zucchini and squash.Combine 1 tbsp oil, garlic, and thyme in small bowl. Heat 2 tbsp oil in 12" nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add half eggplant mixture, 1/4 tsp salt and 1/4 tsp pepper; cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are lightly browned, ~7 min. ush vegetables to sides of skillet; add half of garlic mixture to clearing and cook, mashing with spatula, until fragrant, ~30 s. Stir to combine garlic mixture with vegetables and transfer to medium bowl. Repeat with remaining eggplant mixture, 2 tbsp oil, and remaining garlic mixture. Return skillet to medium-high heat, add remaining teaspoon oil, and heat until shimmering. Add spinach and cook, stirring frequently, until wilted, ~3 min. Transfer spinach to paper towel–lined plate and drain 2 min. Stir into eggplant mixture. Spray 13x9" dish with vegetable oil spray. Spread 1 c tomato sauce in bottom of baking dish; shingle 4 noodles on top of sauce. Spread half of vegetable mixture over noodles, followed by half of olives, half of cream sauce, and 1 c of mozzarella. Repeat layering with 4 noodles, 1 c tomato sauce, remaining vegetables, remaining olives, remaining cream sauce, and 1 cup mozzarella. Place remaining 4 noodles on top layer of cheese. Spread remaining 1 c tomato sauce over noodles and sprinkle with remaining 1 c mozzarella. Lightly spray large sheet of aluminum foil with vegetable oil spray and cover lasagna. Bake until -bubbling, ~35 min. Cool on wire rack 25 min. Cut into pieces, sprinkle with basil, and serve.

