Guacamole Veggie Burger

Burger:
1 medium sweet potatoe, scrubbed (~1 lb)
2 tbsp olive oil divided
1 c chopped white onion (1/2 large)
1 tsp kosher salt divided + more to taste
1 garlic clove, minced
3/4 c quinoa
1 19oz can cooked black beans, rinsed, drained (2 1/4 c canned)
1/2 c panko bread crumbs
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper + more to taste
1/2 tsp sweet paprika
1/4 tsp ground cumin

Preheat oven to 375F. Poke the sweet potato all over with a fork and wrap in foil. Place on a baking sheet and roast until tender, about 1 hour. Let cool 10 min and roughly chop. Makes 1 c of cooked sweet potato. 
In a large skillet, heat 1 tbsp of the oil over medium high heat. Add the onions, season with a pinch of salt and saute until soft and golden, 5 min. Add the garlic and ocok, stirring often, until the onions and garlic are golden brown, 5min more. Remove from the heat and transfer to a food processor. Wipe the skillet clean and reserve for later use. Add the chopped sweet potatoe, quinoa, black beans, panko, 1/2 tsp of salt, pepper, paprika, and cumin to the onions. Pulse until the mixture is slightly chunky. Use your hands for the mixture into 6 patties and transfer to a large plate. Chill in the fridge to firm up, uncovered, for 30 min or up to 1 day.

Aioli:
1/2 c vegan mayonnaise
pinch ground chipotle powder
pinch sweet paprika

In a small bowl, mix all ingredients together and set aside.

Guacamole:
2 avocadoes, halved, pitted, and peeled
2 tbsp fresh lime juice + more to taste
1 small tomato, cored and diced
2 tbsp choped white onions
2 tbsp cilantro

In a large bowl, mash the avocados with the lime juice and season with a pinch of salt. Fold in the tomatoes, onion, and cilantro, and adjust the seasoning to taste with lime juice and salt. Makes 2 c and can be stored in the fridge up to 1 day.


In a large skillet, heat 1 1/2 tsp oil over medium high heat. Working in 2 batches, add the patties and cook until both sides are golden brown, 4-6 min per side. Remove the patties and drain on a paper towel lined plate.

For serving:
6 soft burger buns (i.e. Martin's potato rolls) split in half and lightly toasted
6 slices torn green lettuce
6 slices beefsteak tomato
6 slices red onion
1 c tortilla chips or strips, broken apart


Spread the chipotle mayo on each bottom bun half. Divide the patties among the buns and top each with the lettuce, tomato, onion, and generous spoonful of the guacamole, and a few tortilla chips.
