Creamy Chicken and Dumpling Soup
  --Sur la Table
  
  
Soup:
4 tbsp (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, divided
1 lb chicken breast, cut into 1/2" dice
1 c onion, diced
1/2 c celery, diced
1/2 c carrot, peeled and diced
1/4 c unbleached ap flour
6 c low-sodium chicken broth
1 tbsp olive oil
10 oz button mushrooms, trimmed and cut into 1/4" dice
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 tbsp fresh thyme leaves, finely chopped
2 c frozen peas, thawed
2 tbsp fresh chives, chopped
2 tbsp fresh flat-leaf parsley, chopped

To a medium Dutch oven set over medium heat, add 2 tbsp of butter. When butter melts and foam subsides, add the diced chicken; cook, stirring occasionally until chicken is browned, ~5 min. Using a slotted spoon, remove chicken and add onion, celery and carrot; cook, stirring occasionally until softened, ~5-7 min. Add the remaining 2 tbsp of butter and stir. When the butter has melted, add flour, stir vigorously to blend with vegetables and butter. Cook for 2-3 min without letting flour brown. Add 1 c of chicken broth and whisk until mixture is smooth, then whisk in the remaining broth. Bring soup to a simmer. To a medium skillet set over high heat, add oil. When the oil is shimmering, add mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally until they are a deep golden brown color, ~8 min; taste and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Add mushrooms and thyme to the simmering soup. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Continue to simmer soup while preparing dumplings.

Dumplings:
2 tbsp melted butter
1 1/2 c ap flour
1 egg
2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp kosher salt
2 tbsp fresh chives, finely chopped + more for garnish
2 tbsp fresh parsley, finely chopped + more for garnish
3/4 c buttermilk

To a large mixing bowl, whisk flour, baking powder, chives, parsley and salt. In a separate bowl, whisk melted butter, egg and buttermilk until smooth. Slowly pour wet ingredients into dry ingredients and with a wooden spoon, stir until just combined. Cover with plastic wrap and set aside. 


Add peas, chives and parsley to soup; stir to combine. Taste the soup and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Drop heaping tablespoons of dumpling dough onto the surface of the soup. Cover Dutch oven and simmer until dumplings are firm, ~20-25 min. To serve: Divide soup and dumplings between 8 shallow serving bowls. Garnish with chopped herbs.



