Groundnut Soup (Ghanaian Chicken and Peanut Stew)

2 medium yellow onions, halved and ends trimmed, divided
2 c low-sodium chicken broth + more as needed
5 medium cloves garlic, divided
1 oz (28g) fresh ginger (1") divided
2 tsp tomato paste
4 bone-in, skin on chicken legs (~2 lbs)
1 hot chilit pepper (bird's eye, habanero, scotch bonnet)
2 bay leaves
1 c (9oz) creamy peanut butter
28 oz can plum tomatoes
1 whole smoke-dried fish (tilapia or snapper)
kosher salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
serve with white rice or fufu

In a blender, puree 2 onion halves, 1/2 c stock, 3 garlic cloves, 1/2 oz ginger, and the tomato paste. In a dutch oven, combine the chicken legs with the puree, the remaining onion, ginger, and garlic, along with the hot pepper and bay leaves. Toss to coat. Set oven over medium heat and bring to a simmer, ten cover, reduce heat to low, and cook until onion is soft and translucent, ~20 min; if needed, add additional 1/2 c stock if mixture begins to stick to bottom of pot. Transfer the chunks of onion, ginger, garlic, and hot pepper to the blender. Add peanut butter, canned tomatoes, and their juices, and remaining 1 1/2 c stock, and puree until smooth. Pass the blended mix through a fine mesh strainer into the dotch oven, stirring to incorporate. Raise heat to medium and bring to a simmer, then lower heat to medium low and cook, stirring occasionally, until chicken is tender, oils have surfaced, and mixture has thickened and reduced by about 1/3, ~40 min. Add smoked fish, reduce heat to low, cover the pot, and cook an additional 5 min (if omitting the fish, skip this 5 min step). Remove and discard smoked fish and bay leaves, season with salt and pepper to taste, and server over rice or fufu.


Notes: Hot-smoked fish is a traditional ingredient in groundnut soup and adds a savory, fishy, smoked undercurrent of flavor to the dish. It can be found in most West African and Caribbean markets, but can be omitted if you're unable to find it or prefer to leave it out. Fufu is a starchy dish made from pounded and boiled cassava root and green plantains.

