Italian Wedding Soup
  --Rick Martinez
  
Stock:
1 large onion, halved
4 large carrots, divided
6 large stalks celery, divided
4 whole garlic cloves, lightly crushed
2 large bone-in, skin-on chicken breasts
2 bay leaves
1 tsp black peppercorn
3 sprigs fresh thyme (or 1 tsp dried)
2 sprigs fresh oregano (or 1 tsp dried)
2 sprigs fresh rosemary (or 1 tsp dried)
4 c chicken stock

Cut one half of the onion in half, you should have 2 large wedges; transfer to a large heavy pot or Dutch oven. Cut 2 carrots and 3 celery stalks in half crosswise and transfer to pot with onion. Add whole garlic, chicken breasts, bay leaves, peppercorn, thyme, oregano, 6 c water, and chicken stock to the pot and bring to a boil, cover and reduce to low, and cook until the chicken is cooked through and tender, 30 min. Transfer chicken to a plate to cool; shred chicken, discard the skin and bones and set aside until ready to use. Continue to simmer stock covered until the vegetables are tender, 15 min more. Strain stock and set aside until ready to use; discard solids and wipe pot clean.

Meatballs:
1/2 cc plain panko breadcrumbs
1/3 cup finely grated parmesan + more for serving
1 tsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp crushed red pepper flakes
1/3 c fresh parsley, finely chopped
kosher salt, to taste
freshly ground black pepper, to taste
1/4 c heavy cream
2 cloves garlic, finely grated, separated
1 egg, beaten to blend
1 1/2 lb ground pork

Whisk the panko, parmesan, oregano, red pepper flakes, 1 tsp salt, and 1 tsp black pepper in a medium bowl until combined. Stir in the cream, half of grated garlic, and egg until completely combined. Transfer the pork to a large bowl. Pull the ground pork apart with two forks as if you were shredding pulled pork, breaking up the clumps without compacting until very loose. Pour the cream mixture into the meat and use the same pulling technique to mix until all the ingredients are evenly incorporated. Scoop out portions of the meat mixture with a 1 oz ice cream scoop or use 2 heaping tbsp of meat mixture. Lightly oil your hands and roll the meat gently between your hands into balls. Arrange the balls on a rimmed baking sheet. You should have ~24. Cover and chill until ready to use.

Soup:
2 tbsp evoo + more for hands
1/2 c white wine
1 c dry ditalini (or other small pasta)
2 cloves garlic, finely grated, separated
1 bunch mature spinach, torn into 2-inch pieces (~7 c)
1/4 c fresh parsley, roughly chopped

Cut remaining onion, carrot and celery into 1/2" pieces and set aside. Heat 2 tbsp oil in same large pot over medium-high heat. Add half of the meatballs and cook, turning and rolling occasionally, until they are lightly browned on all sides,~ 5 min total; remove to a plate. The meatballs will not be cooked through, just browned on the outside. Repeat with the remaining meatballs; remove them to the plate as well. Reduce the heat to medium, add the onion, carrots, celery, and remaining grated garlic; season with 1 tbsp salt. Cook, stirring occasionally and scraping up the browned bits, until the vegetables are tender, 10-12 min. Stir in the wine, scraping any browned bits from the bottom of the pan, and cook until it's almost completely evaporated, ~3 min. Add reserved stock and bring to a boil, reduce to low and simmer until vegetables are just tender, 25-30 min. Add meatballs and pasta and cook until cooked through, 10 min. Stir in spinach and reserved chicken and continue cooking until spinach is wilted and tender, 5 min; season with salt. Serve topped with parsley, grated parmesan, freshly ground black pepper, and olive oil.


