Mushroom Leek Soup
  --Sur la Table

1 oz dried wild mushrooms
8 tbsp unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
2 c roughly chopped celery
2 medium leeks, white parts only
1 medium yellow onion, roughly chopped
2 garlic cloves, peeled and minced
4 c sliced stemmed fresh shitake mushrooms
4 c sliced Crimini mushrooms
2 c sliced button mushrooms
1/2 c dry white wine
1/4 c all-purpose flour
8 c chicken broth, low-sodium
1/2 c whipping cream
2 tbsp truffle oil
2 tbsp chopped chives
1/4 c straw mushrooms, for garnish

Place the dried mushrooms into a small bowl and cover with hot tap water, set aside and allow to soak for 20 min. Cut leeks into 1/4" rounds. Transfer to a large bowl of cold water and wash well, lift from water into a colander and drain. In a large pot, add 6 tbsp of butter and place on the stove over a medium-high heat to melt. Add the celery, leeks and onion and cook until tender, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook until fragrant, ~1 min. Add all the mushrooms and cook until just starting to soften,~4 min. Add wine, bring to a boil and cook until reduced to a glaze, ~5 min. In a small bowl, use a silicone spatula to combine the flour and remaining butter until a smooth paste forms. Add the flour paste mixture to the pot and stir until the mixture melts and coats the vegetables. Gradually mix in the stock and bring to the boil, stirring frequently. Remove the soaking mushrooms from their liquid and roughly chop. Add the mushrooms and their liquid, being careful not to add any sediment to the soup. Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer until the mushrooms are tender, stirring often, ~10 min. Stir in the cream. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Working in batches, transfer the soup to a Vitamix bowl and puree the soup until smooth. Return the soup to the pot and rewarm over a medium-low heat before serving. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Use a ladle to pour soup into individual serving bowls. Drizzle with truffle oil, garnish with straw mushrooms and sprinkle with chives. Serve immediately.

