Ribollita Soup with Sausage and Bread
  --Kayla, the original dish

olive oil, as needed
1 lb bulk mild Italian pork sausage
1 medium onion, diced
4 medium carrots, peeled + diced
4 celery stalks, diced
6 garlic cloves, finely chopped
kosher salt
freshly cracked black pepper
2 tbsp tomato paste
1/4 tsp red pepper flakes
1 c red wine
28 oz can crushed tomatoes
1 qt chicken stock
1 parmesan rind
1/2 lb fresh sourdough or ciabatta bread, torn into 1/2” pieces
1 large bunch green chard, stemmed + roughly chopped
15 oz can cannellini beans, rinsed + drained
grated parmigiano reggiano cheese, for topping
torn fresh basil leaves, for topping

Heat a large, heavy-bottom pot (or Dutch oven) over medium-high heat. Add enough olive oil to coat the bottom. When the oil is hot, add the sausage. Use a wooden spoon to break it apart into smaller pieces. Season with a pinch of salt. Cook the sausage until browned, ~5 min. Use a slotted spoon to transfer the sausage to a plate and set aside. Add the onions, carrots, and celery. Sauté for 8-10 min until tender and slightly browned. Season with salt and black pepper. Stir in the garlic and cook for another minute or so. Stir in the tomato paste and red pepper flakes. Cook for a min, stirring well. Pour in the red wine. Simmer for 2 min. Add the crushed tomatoes, chicken stock, parmesan rind, and browned sausage. Bring the soup to a simmer, and then reduce the heat to medium-low. Simmer the soup for ~30 min, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium heat. Coat the bottom with a generous amount of olive oil. Once hot, add the torn bread. Toast until golden and crisp, stirring continuously. Season with a pinch of salt. Stir the green chard and cannellini beans into the soup. Simmer for another 10 min or so. Taste the soup and season with salt as needed. Place a few pieces of toasted bread into the bottom of each bowl. Ladle the soup over the bread. Top with a few more pieces of bread, a generous amount of grated parmigiano reggiano, and a small handful of torn basil.


Notes: can use any beans also can double the beans, can use kale instead of chard, can use spicy sausage



