Thai Pumpkin Curry Soup
  --Sur la Table

2 tbsp vegetable or peanut oil
3 tbsp red curry paste
2 tbsp minced galangal or ginger
1 large garlic clove, minced
1 large shallot, minced
1 red bell pepper, cored and finely diced
15 oz can pumpkin puree
2x13 1/2 oz cans coconut milk
2 1/2 c low-sodium chicken or vegetable broth
2 tbsp grated palm sugar or light brown sugar + more as needed
1 tbsp fish sauce, plus more as needed
3 oz shitake mushrooms, stemmed and thinly sliced
1 medium Asian sweet potato or yam, peeled and dice into 1/2" pieces
2 yard-long beans or green beans, trimmed and cut into 1" pieces (~1 c)
1/2 c loosely packed fresh chopped fresh cilantro + more whole leaves for garnish
1/4 c loosely packed fresh Thai basil leaves + more for garnish
lime wedges, for serving

To a large saucepan set over medium-high heat, add oil and curry paste. Use a wooden spoon to break up the curry paste and toast until aromatic. Add galangal, garlic, shallot, and red pepper and cook until soft and translucent, ~3 min. Stir in pumpkin purée and cook until thick and reduced, ~5 min. Add coconut milk, broth, sugar, fish sauce, mushrooms, and sweet potato; bring to a boil and reduce heat to a simmer; cook until flavors meld, ~10 min. Add yard-long beans and continue to simmer until tender, ~7 min. Add herbs; taste and adjust seasoning with sugar and fish sauce. 

Ginger Rice:
Ginger steamed jasmine rice, for serving (recipe included)
1 1/2 c jasmine rice
1 tbsp vegetable oil
2 tbsp minced ginger
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 c water or low-sodium chicken broth
Sea salt

Rinse jasmine rice with cold water until water runs clear and is no longer cloudy. To a medium saucepan with tight fitting lid set over medium-high heat, add oil. When oil is shimmering, add ginger and garlic and sauté until aromatic, ~1 min. Add rinsed rice and sauté until lightly toasted, ~2 min. Add water and salt and bring to boil. Reduce heat to a simmer, cover the pan with a lid and cook until rice is tender, and liquid has evaporated ~15 min. Remove from heat and allow to stand for 5 min. Fluff rice with a fork, taste and adjust seasoning with salt.
