Vegan Corn Chowder
--Joy Manning (adapted from Miss Rachel's Pantry)

5 ears of corn
2 tbsp olive oil
1 large onion, diced 
1 c diced celery
6 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 c diced carrots (1 small carrot)
1/2 c tomato, diced
2 small fresh red chilies, such as Fresno
1 tsp black pepper
1 tsp salt
6 c corn stock
1 cup plant milk 
3 medium Yukon potatoes, diced (350 g)
1/3 c raw cashews (50 g)
1/3 c water (100 g)
thinly sliced green onion, for garnish, optional

Remove the husk and silk from your corn. With a sharp knife, strip the kernels off the cob. Don’t worry about scraping every bit off the cob. You’re going to make a corn stock, so the starchy corn milk will get extracted into the water (especially if you use your Instant Pot). To make your corn stock, place the stripped cobs in an instant pot of a stock pot. Cover with 6 c water. If using the instant pot, set it to high pressure for 15 min. You can release the pressure when the timer goes off. If using a stock pot, bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook, covered for about 45 min. While the corn stock cooks, start the chowder. In a large pot over medium heat, add olive oil, onion, celery, carrots, garlic, tomato, red chilies, black pepper, and salt. Cook until the vegetables have started to soften, ~5 to 8 min. Add the corn stock and plant milk, and bring to a simmer. Cook for 15 min. Add the corn and potatoes and cook until potatoes are just tender, ~12 min. (Start testing your potatoes at 10 min—it depends on what size you chopped them.) Transfer ~2 c to a high-speed blender (like a Vitamix), and add the raw cashews and water. Blend on high until the mixture is completely smooth and creamy, ~30 s. Return to the pot, and stir to combine. Add additional salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle with green onion before serving, if desired.


Note: Like most soups, this chowder improves after an overnight rest in the refrigerator, so it’s an ideal make-ahead dish. It’s also a great way to stash the flavor of summer in the freezer so you can enjoy it during the dead of winter.
