Apple Cheddar Pie
  --Claire Saffitz

Crust:
4 oz aged cheddar cheese, grated
3 c ap flour (14.2 oz / 405g), plus more for rolling
2 tbsp sugar
2 tsp Diamond Crystal kosher salt
2 sticks unsalted butter, cubed and briefly frozen
2/3 c ice water

Use the grating disk attachment on a food processor to grate cheese. To the grated cheese in the bowl of the food processor, add flour, sugar, salt, and butter. Pulse mixture 2-3 times to barely break down butter, which should be very large still. Pour ice water over mixture in food processor. Pulse until butter is between the size of a lentil and a pea and crumbs are evenly moistened. Dough should not ball up around blade. Pour contents of food processor onto a lightly floured kitchen surface. Break up any pieces of butter that are still large and ensure everything is evenly mixed. Mixture should hold together when squeezed in your hand. Using a bench scraper, compress the sides of a mixture into a squared off shape. Use a rolling pin to press mixture into 1/2” thickness (in the video hers looks closer to 1”). Cut sheet into 4 quadrants, and stack on top of one another. Re-flour kitchen surface, and press down with hands and rolling pin to compress into a long rectangle. Cut in half to separate out into two crusts. Round off the edges of each half, and wrap in plastic, pressing dough into plastic with rolling pin and using plastic to further round out edges of dough. 

Filling:
3 lb apples (~7 medium-large), peeled, cored, and cut into 1/2" thick wedges (granny smith, honey crisp)
2/3 c demerara sugar
2 tsp orange or Angostura bitters (optional)
2 tsp apple cider vinegar
2 tsp vanilla 
1 tsp ground cinnamon
Pinch of kosher salt
2/3 c heavy cream
2 tbsp cornstarch

Put the cut apples in a bowl with the sugar, pinch salt, cinnamon, vanilla, vinegar, and bitters. Stir to combine and let sit (overnight even). Heat a saucepan over medium. In a small container, combine 1 tbsp juices that have pooled at the bottom of apple mixture with 2 tbsp cornstarch. Add cream to saucepan, whisking occasionaly, allowing it to come to a boil. Once boiling, whisk frequently as it reduces. Cook until reduced and golden brown. Use whisk to unstick milk solids from pan and prevent them from burning. Once deep golden brown, remove from heat and add remaning liquid from apples to the pan. Put pan back on the heat and reduce by 2/3 until mixture thickens. Whisk cornstarch mixture and add to pot, and allow to come to a boil, whisking continuously to prevent lumps. Add mixture to bowl with apples and toss to coat. 

Assembly
1 beaten egg
splash of heavy cream
Demerara sugar for sprinkling

Roll and cut lattice. Roll out bottom crust, drape into pie plate, and allow the weight of the crust to fall into the pie plate, pressing it to get full contact of the crust into the pie plate. Pour half of apple mixture into bottom crust, ensuring apples are fitting into the bottom crust. Pour remaining apples and juices on top. Paint egg wash border around edge of crust. Assemble lattice. Trim away excess dough at edges. Paint more egg wash around edges, and fold over edges. Crimp edges. Brush one final layer of egg wash over edges and entire surface of pie. Sprinkle demerara sugar over top. Freeze pie for 10 min. Place pie on a foil lined baking sheet. Bake pie at 425F for 20 min, then reduce heat to 350F and continue baking for a total time of 1hr 15m - 1hr 45m. Crust will be golden brown and juices will bubble. Tent foil around crust if it begins to brown too quickly. Allow to cool completely (several hours) before slicing and serving.


