Apple Slab Pie
  --Cook's Country
  
8 granny smith apples (~3 1/2 lb) peeled, cored, and sliced thin
8 golden delicious apples (~3 1/2 lb) peeled, cored, and sliced thin
1 1/2 c granulated sugar, divided
1/2 tsp salt
1 1/2 c animal crackers (4 oz)
2x15 oz pillsbury ready to roll pie crust
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled
6 tbsp minute tapioca
2 tsp cinnamon
3 tbsp lemon juice

Combine apples, 1 c sugar, and salt in colander set over large bowl. Let sit, tossing occasionally, until apples release their juices, ~30 min. Press gently on apples to extract liquid and reserve 3/4 c juice. Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heat oven to 350F. Pulse crackers and remaining sugar in food processor until finely ground. Dust work surface with cracker mixture, brush half of one pie round with water, overlap with second pie round, and dust top with cracker mixture. Roll out dough to 19x14" and transfer to rimmed baking sheet (preferrably non-stick). Brush dough with butter and refrigerate; roll out top curst in the same way. Toss drained apples with tapioca, cinnamon, and lemon juice and arrange evenly over bottom crust, pressing lightly to flatten. Brush edges of bottom crust with water, and arrange top crust on pie. Press crusts together and use a paring knife to trim any excess dough. Use fork to crimp and seal edges of pie, then pierce top of pie at 2" intervals. Bake until pie is golden brown and juices are bubbling, ~1 hr. Transfer to wire rack and let cool 1 hr.

Glaze:
3/4 c reserved apple juice (from filling)
2 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 c confectioners' sugar

While pie is cooling, simmer reserved apple juice in saucepan over medium heat until syrupy and reduced to 1/4 c, ~6 min. Stir in lemon juice and butter and let cool to room temp. Whisk in sugar and brush glaze evenly over warm pie. Let pie cool completely, at least 1 hr. Serve.


Notes: Can be made up to 24 hrs in advanced and refrigerated. Bring to room temp before serving.


Variant:
  --Tara Liptak, Smells like home

Crust:
3 3/4 c (470 g) ap flour
1 1/2 tbsp sugar
1 1/2 tsp table salt
3 sticks (12 oz or 340 g) unsalted butter, cubed and kept very cold
3/4 c very cold water

Measure the flour into a large, wide bowl. Whisk in the sugar and salt. Toss in the butter cubes and coat them all with the flour. Using your first 3 fingers of both hands, mash up the butter into smaller pieces, just bigger than the size of peas. You can also do this with two knives or a strong pastry blender. I prefer using my fingers. Once the mixture looks sort of uniform, slightly crumbly, and the butter is broken up, stir in 1/2 c of water with a rubber spatula until the water is absorbed and the dough starts to come together. If the dough is still dry and crumbly, add up to the remaining 1/4 c of water, 1 tbsp at a time until the dough just starts to come together. Bring the dough together with your hands until it forms a soft and almost loose ball. Divide the pie dough into 2 pieces, one slightly larger than the other. You'll need the larger piece for the bottom crust. Transfer one piece to a sheet of plastic wrap and mold it into a rectangular shape, ~1" thick. Use the plastic wrap to help bring the dough together, if needed. Repeat with the remaining dough. Chill the dough in the refrigerator for at least 2 hr before using. 

Filling:
3 1/2 - 4 lbs apples, peeled, cored and chopped into approximately 1/2" chunks (~10 c)
Squeeze of lemon juice
2/3 - 3/4 c sugar (depending on how sweet you like your pie and how sweet your apples are)
3 tbsp cornstarch
1 rounded tsp cinnamon
1/4 tsp  nutmeg
1/4 tsp  allspice
1/8 tsp table salt

In a very large bowl, toss the apple chunks with the lemon juice. Mix the sugar, cornstarch, cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, and salt together in a medium bowl. Sprinkle the sugar-spice mixture over the apples and toss them well to coat; set aside.

Finishing:
2 tbsp heavy cream or 1 egg beaten with 1 tbsp water

Preheat the oven to 375 F. Line the bottom of a 10×15×1" baking sheet or similarly sized jelly roll pan with a piece of parchment paper. If your pan is a little smaller than this (as mine was), don't worry - this recipe will still work fine; you'll just have a little extra dough leftover. Roll out the larger piece of dough on a well-floured surface with a rolling pin into a 18x13" rectangle. Transfer the piece to the pan and drape the edges of the dough over the sides of the pan while only gently pushing the dough down into the inside and corners of the pan. Slip the pan into the fridge or freezer while you roll out the second piece of dough into a 16x11" rectangle (you want to keep the dough in the pan as cold as possible). Remove the pan from the fridge/freezer and pour the apples and the juices over the dough in the pan - it may seem like way too many apples, but they will cook down. Drape the second sheet of dough over the apples. Trim the dough to where both top and bottom edges hang about ¾-inch over the edge of the pan. Seal up the edges tightly with your fingers. Brush the top of the dough with the heavy cream or egg wash. Using a sharp knife, slice a whole bunch of 1" slits in the top of the dough to allow the steam to escape during baking. Place the whole sheet on a larger baking sheet - there will likely be spillage that you'll want to catch on the large pan rather than the bottom of your oven (trust me). Bake for 40 to 45 minutes, until the top crust is a nice golden brown and the filling is bubbling through the holes in the crust. Cool the pan on a wire rack for at least 45 minutes before cutting and serving.


