Chocolate Pecan Pie
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
Crust:
1/4 c ice water
4 tsp sour cream
1 1/4 c (6 1/4 oz) ap flour
1 1/2 tsp granulated sugar
1/2 tsp salt
8 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1/4" pieces and frozen for 15 min

Combine water and sour cream in bowl. Process flour, sugar, and salt in food processor until combined, ~5 s. Scatter butter over top and pulse until butter is size of large peas, ~10 pulses. Add sour cream mixture and pulse until dough forms clumps and no dry flour remains, ~12 pulses, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Turn dough onto sheet of plastic wrap and form into 4" disk. Wrap tightly in plastic and refrigerate for 1 hr. (Wrapped dough can be refrigerated for up to 2 days or frozen for up to 1 month. If frozen, let dough thaw completely on counter before rolling.) Let chilled dough sit on counter to soften slightly, ~10 min, before rolling. Roll dough into 12" circle on lightly floured counter. Loosely roll dough around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto 9" pie plate, letting excess dough hang over edge. Ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with your hand while pressing into plate bottom with your other hand. Trim overhang to 1/2"  beyond lip of plate. Tuck overhang under itself; folded edge should be flush with edge of plate. Crimp dough evenly around edge of plate using your fingers. Wrap dough-lined plate loosely in plastic and refrigerate until dough is firm, at least 30 minutes. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 400 F. Line chilled pie shell with aluminum foil and, while pressing into plate bottom with 1 hand to keep foil flush with bottom of plate, work foil around crimped edge with your other hand. Fill foil-lined dough to lip of plate with pie weights. Bake until edges are dry and pale, ~30 min. Remove foil and pie weights and continue to bake until bottom begins to color, ~10 min longer. Transfer to wire rack. Lower oven temperature to 325 F.

Filling:
6 tbsp unsalted butter
2 oz unsweetened chocolate, chopped fine
3/4 c light corn syrup
3/4 c packed (5 1/4 oz) brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 tbsp vanilla extract
1/2 tsp table salt
2 c pecans, toasted and chopped coarse

Toast the pecans on a rimmed baking sheet in a 300F oven for 7-10 min, stirring occasionally. This pie needs to cool for at least 4 hr to set the filling.
Melt butter and chocolate in bowl at 50 percent power, stirring halfway through microwaving, until melted, ~2 min. Add corn syrup, sugar, eggs, vanilla, and salt to chocolate mixture and whisk until combined. Stir in pecans. Place pie shell on rimmed baking sheet (shell needn't be completely cool before proceeding). Pour filling into shell and distribute evenly with rubber spatula. Bake until pecan layer that forms on top begins to crack and filling in center of pie registers 185-190 F (filling will jiggle slightly when pie is shaken), 1-1 hr 5 min, rotating sheet halfway through baking. Let pie cool on wire rack until set, at least 4 hr.

Whipped cream:
1 c heavy cream, chilled
3 tbsp packed brown sugar
1-2 tbsp bourbon
1/2 tsp vanilla extract
pinch table salt

Using stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment, whip cream, sugar, 1 tbsp bourbon, vanilla, and salt on medium-low speed until foamy, ~1 min. Increase speed to high and whip until soft peaks form, 1-3 min. Add remaining 1 tbsp bourbon to taste. (Whipped cream can be refrigerated in airtight container for up to 24 hr.) 



Notes: Can wrap and freezse pie after baking, just take out and let thaw 
