Foolproof New York Cheesecake
  --America's Test Kitchen

Crust:
6 whole graham crackers, broken into pieces
1/3 c packed (2 1/3 oz) dark brown sugar
1/2 c (2 1/2 oz) ap flour
1/4 tsp salt
7 tbsp unsalted butter, melted

Adjust oven racks to upper-middle and lower-middle positions and heat oven to 325 F. Process cracker pieces and sugar in food processor until finely ground, ~30 s. Add flour and salt and pulse to combine, 2 pulses. Add 6 tbsp melted butter and pulse until crumbs are evenly moistened, ~10 pulses. Brush bottom of 9" springform pan with 1/2 tbsp melted butter. Using your hands, press crumb mixture evenly into pan bottom. Using flat bottom of measuring cup or ramekin, firmly pack crust into pan. Bake on lower-middle rack until fragrant and beginning to brown around edges, ~13 min. Transfer to rimmed baking sheet and set aside to cool completely. Reduce oven temperature to 200 F.

Filling:
2 1/2 lb cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 c (10 1/2 oz) granulated sugar
1/8 tsp salt
1/3 c sour cream
2 tsp lemon juice
2 tsp vanilla 
6 large eggs + 2 large egg yolks

Using stand mixer fitted with paddle, beat cream cheese, 3/4 c sugar, and salt at medium-low speed until combined, ~1 min. Beat in remaining 3/4 c sugar until combined, ~1 min. Scrape beater and bowl well; add sour cream, lemon juice, and vanilla and beat at low speed until combined, ~1 min. Add egg yolks and beat at medium-low speed until thoroughly combined, ~1 min. Scrape bowl and beater. Add whole eggs 2 at a time, beating until thoroughly combined, ~30 s after each addition. Pour filling through fine-mesh strainer set in large bowl, pressing against strainer with rubber spatula or back of ladle to help filling pass through strainer. Brush sides of springform pan with remaining 1/2 tbsp melted butter. Pour filling into crust and set aside for 10 min to allow air bubbles to rise to top. Gently draw tines of fork across surface of cake to pop air bubbles that have risen to surface. When oven thermometer reads 200 F, bake cheesecake on lower rack for 45 min. After 45 min, remove cake from oven and use toothpick to pierce any bubbles that have risen to surface. Return to oven and continue to bake until center registers 165 F, 2 1/4 - 2 3/4 hr longer. Remove cake from oven and increase oven temperature to 500 F. When oven is at 500 F, bake cheesecake on upper rack until top is evenly browned, 4-12 min, placing rimmed baking sheet on lower rack to catch any drips. Let cool for 5 min; run paring knife between cheesecake and side of springform pan. Let cheesecake cool until barely warm, 2 1/2 - 3 hr. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerate until cold and firmly set, at least 6 hr. (Leftovers can be refrigerated for up to 4 days.) To unmold cheesecake, remove sides of pan. Slide thin metal spatula between crust and pan bottom to loosen, then slide cheesecake onto serving plate. Let cheesecake stand at room temperature for ~30 min. To slice, dip sharp knife in very hot water and wipe dry between cuts. Serve.

