Oregon Blackberry Pie
  --Cooks country

Crust:
1/3 c ice sater + extra as needed
3 tbsp sour cream
2 1/2 c (12 1/2 oz) ap flour
1 tbsp sugar
1 tsp salt
16 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1/4" pieces and frozen for 15 min

Mix ice water and sour cream in bowl. Process flour, sugar, and salt in food processor until combined, ~5 s. Scatter butter over top and pulse until butter is size of large peas, ~10 pulses. Pour half of sour cream mixture into bowl with flour mixture and pulse until incorporated, ~3 pulses. Scrape down bowl and repeat with remaining sour cream mixture. Pinch dough with your fingers; if dough feels dry and does not hold together, sprinkle 1-2 tbsp extra ice water over mixture and pulse until dough forms large clumps and no dry flour remains, 3-5 pulses. Transfer dough to lightly floured counter. Divide dough in half and form each half into 4" disk. Wrap disks tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hr. Can be refrigerated for up to 2 days or frozen for up to 1 month; if frozen thaw before rolling. Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heat oven to 400F. Let chilled dough sit on counter to soften slightly, ~10 min, before rolling. Roll 1 disk of dough into 12" circle on lightly floured counter. Loosely roll dough around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto 9" pie tin, letting excess dough hang over edge. Ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with your hands while pressing into plate bottom with your other hand. Wrap dough lined plate loosely in plastic and refrigerate until dough is firm, ~30 min. Roll other disck into 12" circle on lightly floured worspace, then transfer to parchment paper lined baking sheet. Using pizza cutter, cut dough into 12 1" strips. Discard 4 short end pieces, then cover remaining strips (8) with plastic and refrigerate for 30 min.

Filling:
3/4 c (15 1/4 oz) sugar + 1 tsp for topping
5 tbsp (1 1/4 oz) cornstarch
1/4 tsp salt
20 oz (4 c) blackberries
2 tbsp lemon juice
2 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1/2" pieces
1 large egg, lightly beaten

Whisk sugar, cornstarch, and salt together in large bowl. Add blackberries and toss gently to coat. Add lemon juice and toss until no dry sugar mixture remains, Transfer to pie tin and dot with butter. Lay 4 strips parallel to each other across pie, ~1" apart. Brush strips with egg, leaving 1/2" at ends unbrushed. Lay remaining strips perpendicular, ~1" apart. Pinch edge s of lattice strips and bottom crust firmly together. Trim overhang to 1/2" beyond lip of tin. Tuck overhang under itself; folded edges should be flush with edge of plate. Crimp dough evenly around edge of plate using fingers. Brush lattice top and crimped edge with egg and sprinkle with 1 tsp sugar. Set pie on parchmnet lined baking sheet. Bake until golden brown and juices bubble evenly along surface, 45-50 min, rotating halfway through. Let cool on wire rack for at least 4 hrs before serving.


Notes: do not use frozen berries for this recipe
