Caramelized Onion Skillet Tart
  --Field Company

Crust:
1 1/2 c (225g) ap flour
1/2 tsp sugar
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
8 tbsp (1 stick) very cold unsalted butter, cut into small cubes
1 large egg
2 tsp ice water + more as needed

In a food processor, combine the flour, sugar, and salt and pulse a few times. Add the butter and pulse several times, until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. In a small bowl, beat together the egg and water, then drizzle over the flour mixture and pulse a few times. The mixture should resemble a moist, coarse meal that holds together when you pinch it between your fingers. If it doesn’t, add another teaspoon of water and pulse again. Dump the dough out onto a work surface, then smash and push it together until it forms a ball. Flatten the ball into a disk, then wrap in plastic and refrigerate for at least 3 hr, and up to 3 days. At least 2 hr before you’re ready to eat, roll the dough out between two sheets of parchment paper until it’s ~12" in diameter. Transfer the dough to a cast iron skillet and press it into the pan; the dough should reach ~1" up the side of the skillet. Fold the edges of the dough over to leave an even crust that’s at least 1/2" up the side of the skillet. Prick the base of the crust all over with a fork. Refrigerate the dough for at least 1 hr. Preheat the oven to 400F. Grease a piece of aluminum foil with butter or cooking spray and gently press it, greased side down, over the dough (make sure to cover the sides of the dough as well). Bake for 20 min, then remove the foil and continue baking until the tart shell is golden brown, ~10 min longer. 
  
Tart:
2 tbsp vegetable oil
2 tbsp unsalted butter
3 medium or 2 large sweet onions, halved and cut into 1/2" slices
1 tsp kosher salt
1 tbsp thyme leaves
1 tbsp sherry vinegar
6 oz Gruyère cheese, coarsely grated (~1 1/2 c)

Heat the oil and butter in a cast iron skillet over medium heat until the butter has melted. Add the onions, thyme, and salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions begin to brown around the edges, ~20 min. Add the vinegar and a splash of water and continue cooking, stirring occasionally, until the onions are deeply browned and very soft, ~20 min longer. Transfer to a bowl and clean the skillet. Scatter the cheese evenly over the bottom of the tart, and top with an even layer of the caramelized onions. Bake for 10 min longer, or until the cheese has melted. Let the tart cool in the pan for at least 20 min (it’ll shrink slightly during this time), then cut into wedges and serve.
  

