Cast Iron Apple Pie
  --America's Test Kitchen

2 tbsp unsalted butter
2 lbs golden delicious apples, peeled, cored, halved, and sliced 1/2" thick
2 lbs granny smith apples, peeled, cored, halved, and sliced 1/2" thick
1 recipe double curst pie dough, rolled into 12" rounds
1/4 c apple cider
1/4 c maple syrup
1 tbsp cornstarch
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 tsp grated lemon zest + 1 tbsp juice
1/8 tsp cinnamon
1 large egg, lightly beaten with 2 tbsp water
2 tsp sugar

Heat 10" cast iron skillet over medium heat for 3 min. Melt 1 tbsp butter in skillet. Add half of apples, cover, and cook until apples begin to release their juice, ~4 min. Uncover and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until apples are tender and golden brown, ~5 min. Transfer apples and their juice to rimmed baking sheet. Repeat with remaining 1 tbsp butter and remaining apples; transfer to sheet. Spread apples into even layer and let cool to room temp, ~30 min. Adjust oven rack to lowest position and heat oven to 400F. Grease clean, dry, cooled skillet. Loosely roll 1 crust around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto prepared skillet. Ease crust into skillet by gently lifting and supporting edge of dough with your hand while pressing into skillet bottom and corners with your other hand. Leave any overhanging dough in place. Whisk cider, syrup, cornstarch, salt, zest and juice, and cinnamon together in large bowl until smooth. Add cooled apples and any accumulated juices and toss to combine. Transfer apple mixture to skillet, mounding in the middle. Loosely roll remaining crust around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto filling. Trim any overhanging dough to 1/2" beyond lip of skillet, then ease edge of top crust into skillet until flush with bottom crust. Gently press top and bottom together to seal. Roll in edge of crust, then press rolled edge against sides of skillet to flute rim. Using a paring knife, cut 8 2" vents in top. Brush crust liberally with egg wash and sprinkle with sugar. Transfer skillet to oven and bake until crust is deep golden brown and filling is bubbling, 40-50 min, rotating skillet halfway through baking. Transfer to wire rack and let cool until filling is set, ~2 hrs. Server slightly warm or at room temp.

Notes: use mix of sweet and tart apples, can use empires or cortlands (tart), and fuji, jonagolds, or braeburns (sweet)
