Cherry Biscuit Cobbler
  --Claire Saffitz

Biscuits:
1/4 c sugar
1 tbsp baking powder
2 tsp finely grated lemon zest
1 tsp kosher salt
2 c ap flour + more for surface
1/2 c (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 1/3 c chilled heavy cream

Whisk sugar, baking powder, lemon zest, salt, and 2 c flour in medium bowl. Add butter and toss to coat. Quickly smash butter into flour mixture with fingers, working until the largest pieces are ~ size of a pea. Gradually stream cream into bowl, tossing flour mixture constantly with a fork to distribute. Using a flexible bench scraper or hard plastic spatula, fold dough over and onto itself several times, scraping bottom and sides of the bowl, to bring together into a mass; dough will feel very wet and sticky. Turn dough out onto generously floured surface. Pat into a 3/4" thick rectangle or square with floured hands, using bench scraper or spatula to lift up dough and dust underneath with more flour as needed. Dust surface with more flour, then cut dough into 4 equal pieces and stack on top of each other. Dust with flour and press down on stack with rolling pin to flatten to a workable height. Roll out to 1/2" thick, dusting with more flour as needed. Use a 1 1/2" cutter to punch out biscuits as closely as possible, dipping cutter into flour often. Transfer biscuits to a plate, you should have ~40. Gather up scraps, reroll, and punch out more biscuits if needed. Chill until ready to use. Dough can be made 1 day ahead; wrap tightly and chill (no need to wrap if using right away).

Filling:
2 lb fresh (or frozen) sweet cherries, pitted
1/2 c sugar
1/4 c fresh lemon juice
3 tbsp cornstarch
1/2 tsp cinnamon
1 tsp vanilla
1/4 tsp almon extract (optional)
1/4 tsp kosher salt
3 tbsp unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled
2 tbsp raw sugar (can sub regular)

Place rack in middle position of oven and heat to 400F. Mix cherries, sugar, lemon juice, cornstarch, cinnamon, vanilla, almond extract, and salt in a large bowl. Scrap filling into a 2 qt baking dish or 9" pie tin with 2" sides and press down on it firmly to compact. Place on foil lined rimmed baking sheet. Arrange chilled biscuits over filling, fitting snuggly so they're touching with only a few gaps. Brush generously with butter; sprinkle with raw sugar. Bake 10 min; reduce heat to 350 and continue to bake until biscuits are golden brown and juices are bubbling, 50-65 min more. Let cool slightly. Serve with ice cream. Can be baked 1 day ahead; store tightly covered at room temp.


