Chocolate Angel Pie  - gf
  --Cook's Country

Filling:
9 oz milk chocolate chopped fine
5 oz bittersweet chocolate chopped fine
3 large egg yolks
1 1/2 tbsp sugar
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 c half and half
1 1/4 c heavy cream, chilled

Microwave both chocolates in large bowl at 50% power, stirring occasionally, until melted, 2-4 min. Whisk yolks, sugar, and salt together in medium bowl until combined, ~1 min. Bring half and half to simmer in small saucepan over medium heat. Whisking constantly, slowly add hot half and half to yolk mixture in 2 additions until incorporated. Return mixture to saucepan and cook over low heat, whisking constantly, until thickened slightly, 30-60 s. Stir half and half mixture into chocolate until combined. Let cool slightly, ~8 min. Using stand mixer fitted with whisk, whip cream on medium low speed until foamy, ~1 min. Increase speed to high and whip until soft peaks form, 1-3 min. Gently whisk 1/3 of whipped cream into cooled chocolate mixture. Fold in remaining whipped cream until no white streaks remain. Cover and refrigerate for at least 3 hrs, or until ready to assemble pie. Can make up to 24 hrs in advance.

Meringue Crust:
1 tbsp cornstarch + extra for pie tin
1/2 c (3 1/2 oz) sugar
3 large egg whites
pinch cream of tartar
1/2 tsp vanilla

Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and heat oven to 275 F. Grease 9" pie tin and dust well with extra cornstarch, using pastry brush to distribute evenly. Combine sugar and 1 tbsp cornstarch in bowl. Using stand mixer fitted with whisk, whip egg whites and cream of tartar on medium low speed until foamy, ~1 min. Increase speed to medium high and whip whites to soft billowy mounds, 1-3 min. Gradually add sugar mixture and whip until glossy, stiff peaks form, 3-5 min. Add vanilla to meringue and whip until incorporated. Spread meringue into prepared pie tin, following contours of plate to cover bottom, sides, and edges. Bake for 1 1/2 hr. Rotate pie tin, reduve oven temp to 200 F, and bake until completely dried out, ~1 hr longer. Shell will rise above rim, some cracking is ok. Let cool completely, ~30 min.

Topping:
1 1/3 c heavy cream
2 tbsp confectioners' sugar 
unsweetened cocoa powder

Spoon cooled filling into cavity of pie shell, distributing evenly. Using stand mixer fitted with whisk, whip cream and sugar on medium low speed until foamy, ~1 min. Increase speed to high and whip until stiff peaks form, 1-3 min. Spread whipped cream evenly over chocolate. Refrigerate until filling is set, ~1 hr. Dust with cocoa. Slice with sharp knife and serve.

Notes: Serve assembled pie within 3 hrs of chilling.
