Chocolate Pecan Pie (supposed to have coffee, but we skip that)

pie crust, chilled and rolled into 13" diameter circle
1 egg, beaten with a pinch of salt
3/4 c packed light brown sugar
3/4 c light corn syrup
3 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled
3 large eggs
1 tsp vanilla extract
1 1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
3/4 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 c pecan halves
3 oz bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped (1/2 c)

Preheat the oven to 425F. Tear a 12" piece of aluminum foil and cut the center into a circle. Bend the foil and round the edges, creating a 2" wide ring and set aside. Tear a piece of foil large enough to cover the surface and sides of the crust and set aside with 2 1/2-3 c of pie weights or dried beans. Transfer the pie crust to a pie plate and crimp the edges. Fock the crust and brush the edges with the beaten egg. Line the piecrust with prepared foil piece and pie weights, making sure they cover the inside edges. Bake the crust until the edges turn golden brown, 15 min. Remove the foil and pie weights. Cover the edges with the foil ring, return to the oven and bake until the crust dries out and the bottom and sides are golden brown, 10 min. Let cool completely. Lower the oven to 400F. In a large bowl, beat the brown sugar and corn syrup with an electric mixer on medium high until smooth and creamy, 2 min. Reduce the speed to low and add the butter, mixing to combine. Increase the speed to medium high and add the eggs 1 at a time, beating until thick and smooth, 2 min more. Add the vanilla, cinnamon, and salt and beat until combined. Spread the chocolate across the bottom of the cooled crust, top with the pecans. Pour the sugar mixture over the top, spreading it to completely coat the pecans. Bake the pie, checking the crust after 8-10 min, and covering with aluminum foil when golden brown. Continue to bake until the top of the filling starts to get crispy and brown, 5 min more. Lover the oven temp to 350F and bake until the filling is puffed and the center barely jiggles when tapped, another 20-25 min. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool completely, 1 1/2-2 hrs.


