Coconut Lemongrass Lemon Meringue Pie
  -Stella Parks

Crust:
1¾ c + 1 tbsp (8 oz) ap flour, + more for dusting
1 tbsp (½ oz) granulated sugar
1½ tsp kosher salt
2 sticks cold unsalted butter, cubed
½ c (4 oz) cold water

In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar and salt. Add the butter and toss to break up the pieces, using your fingers to smash each piece into the flour. Stir in the water and knead until a dough forms. Transfer to a generously floured work surface and roll into a 10x15" rectangle. Fold each shorter end toward the middle and fold the dough in half at the middle seam like a book. Fold the top to the bottom to make a thick block, then cut it in half. Using as much flour as needed, roll one piece of the dough into a 14" round. Brush off the excess flour and drape the round over a 9" glass pie plate, making sure the dough is flush with the pan. Trim the excess dough to a 1¼" overhang, then fold that over to create a ¾" border on the rim of the plate. Crimp the border, then refrigerate for at least 2 hr. Reserve the additional round by repeating this process, then cover in plastic wrap and store it in the freezer (up to 3 months) for another pie. Preheat the oven to 350°. Line the chilled crust with a sheet of foil and fill with rice or beans. Place the pie plate on a sheet pan and bake the dough until golden brown, 1 hour. Remove the foil and let cool completely.

Custard:
1¾ c (12 oz) granulated sugar
2 stalks lemongrass, thinly sliced
¼ tsp kosher salt
½ c (2½ oz) cornstarch
½ c (~8 each/5 oz) egg yolks (reserve whites for the meringue)
3 tbsp lemon zest
1 c (8 oz) freshly squeezed lemon juice
½ c coconut water
14 oz can (1⅔ c) coconut milk

In a food processor, pulse the sugar and lemongrass until the lemongrass is finely chopped. Transfer the sugar-lemongrass mixture to a 3 qt saucepan and add the salt and cornstarch, whisking to combine. Whisk in the egg yolks, lemon zest and juice, and coconut water and milk. Cook over medium-low heat, whisking gently, until the custard is steaming hot and has reached 135°, 5-7 min. Increase the heat to medium and continue cooking until the custard is thick, about 3 minutes more. Once thickened, whisk 2 min more to neutralize a starch-dissolving protein found in egg yolks. Remove from the heat and strain the custard through a fine-mesh sieve into a bowl, pressing with a flexible spatula to push the liquid through. Discard the lemongrass left in the sieve. Scrape the custard into the prepared crust, spreading it into an even layer, and let cool on the counter until a skin forms over the surface, about 30 min. Proceed to the next step, or wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate until needed, up to 24 hr.

Meringue:
1 c (~8 each/8oz) egg whites
1¾ c (12 oz) granulated sugar
½ tsp kosher salt
¼ tsp cream of tartar
1 vanilla bean, seeds scraped

Fill a 3 qt pot with 1½" of water and bring to a simmer over medium heat. In the bowl of a stand mixer, combine the egg whites, sugar, salt, cream of tartar and vanilla seeds. Place over the steamy water, stirring and scraping constantly with a flexible spatula until thin, foamy and 175° on a digital thermometer, ~10 min. Transfer to a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment and whip on high until glossy, thick and quadrupled in volume, about 5 min. Use immediately.

Preheat the oven to 375°. Spread the meringue over the custard, working gently if it’s still warm and ensuring it meets the crust all the way around. Sculpt into swoops and swirls with the tines of a fork. Line a sheet pan with a wire rack, place the pie on top and bake until the whole surface is light gold with slightly darker peaks, 20 min. Cool for 1 hr at room temp, then wrap loosely in plastic and refrigerate until cold, 4 hrs if the filling was warm or 1 hr if it was cold to start.
