Coconut Rum Cream Pie     vegan
  --Murielle Banackissa
  
Crust:
1/2 c unsweetened shredded coconut
22 Biscoff cookies (175 g)
1/4 tsp sea salt
6 tbsp melted vegan unsalted butter

Heat oven to 350F. Place the unsweetened shredded coconut in a dry nonstick pan. Spread the coconut into a thin layer and toast over medium heat for 5-6 min or until it’s golden brown and smells nutty, stirring every min or so. Remove from the heat and let cool while you crush the cookies in a food processor. Add the cookies and sea salt to a food processor and pulse until finely ground. Add the toasted coconut and pulse until combined. Be careful not to overprocess—you are not looking for the crust to resemble a flour texture, more like almond meal. Pour the melted vegan butter into the food processor and pulse until the mixture slightly sticks together when pinched, ~15 s. Transfer into a 9" deep-dish pie plate. Using the bottom of a measuring cup or a flat-bottomed glass, press the crust mixture firmly into the bottom and up the sides of the pie dish, using your fingers to assist as needed. Bake for 12 min, or until the crust darkens slightly in color. Remove from the oven and let cool completely, ~1 hr.

Filling:
14 oz can full-fat coconut milk
1/2 c unsweetened coconut beverage from a carton, or another nondairy milk
1/3 c cornstarch
1/4 c granulated sugar
2-4 tbsp dark rum
1/2 c sweetened shredded coconut
1 tsp vanilla extract

Combine 1 can of coconut milk, coconut beverage, cornstarch, sugar, and rum in a medium saucepan. Whisk the mixture until the cornstarch is dissolved. Bring the mixture to a low boil over medium-high heat, whisking regularly. Once the mixture starts thickening, continue cooking for 2 min more, whisking constantly, until the mixture resembles a runny pudding. Turn off the heat and fold in the shredded coconut and vanilla using a silicone spatula. Pour the filling into the cooled pie crust and spread into an even layer with the spatula. Cover with plastic wrap, pressing it lightly to touch the surface of the filling and covering the crust as well. Chill in the refrigerator for at least 7 hr, and up to 24, before serving. Place the 2 cans of coconut milk for the whipped topping in the refrigerator, too.

Whipped Topping:
2x14 oz cans full-fat coconut milk, chilled
2 tbsp confectioners’ sugar + more to taste
1 tbsp dark rum
Toasted shredded coconut or coconut flakes, for serving

When you’re ready to serve, prepare the coconut whipped topping: Scoop out the solidified coconut cream from the top of the 2 chilled coconut milk cans into a medium bowl. (Save the liquid coconut water from these cans to use in other recipes, like smoothies.) Whip the coconut cream using an electric hand mixer on high speed until fluffy. Stir in the confectioners’ sugar and 1 tbsp rum, adding more sugar to taste.

