Coconut Cream Pie
  --Sally McKenney

Crust:
Makes double
2 1/2 c (315g) ap flour (spooned & leveled) + more for shaping and rolling
1 tsp salt
6 tbsp (85g) unsalted butter, chilled and cubed
2/3 c (130g) vegetable shortening, chilled
1/2 c (120ml) ice cold water

Whisk the flour and salt together in a large bowl. Add the butter and shortening. Using a pastry cutter or two forks, cut the butter and shortening into the mixture until it resembles coarse meal (pea-sized bits with a few larger bits of fat is OK). In this step, you’re only breaking up the cold fat into tiny little flour-coated pieces; you’re not completely incorporating it. Do not overwork the ingredients. Measure 1/2 c (120ml) of water in a cup. Add ice. Stir it around. From that, measure 1/2 c (120ml) of water, since the ice has melted a bit. Drizzle the cold water in, 1 tbsp (15ml) at a time, and stir with a rubber spatula or wooden spoon after every tbsp has been added. Stop adding water when the dough begins to form large clumps. I always use ~1/2 c of water, and need a little more in dry winter months. Do not add any more water than you need. Transfer the pie dough to a floured work surface. Using floured hands, fold the dough into itself until the flour is fully incorporated into the fats. The dough should come together easily and should not feel overly sticky. Avoid overworking the dough. If it feels a bit too dry or crumbly, dip your fingers in the ice water and then continue bringing dough together with your hands. If it feels too sticky, sprinkle on more flour and then continue bringing dough together with your hands. Form it into a ball. Use a sharp knife to cut it in half. If it’s helpful, you should have ~1 lb, 8 oz dough total (~680g). Gently flatten each half into 1" thick discs using your hands. Wrap each tightly in plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least 2 hr and up to 5 days. Make pie dough the night before because it needs to chill in the refrigerator for at least 2 hr before rolling out and blind baking. Preheat oven to 375F (190C). Fully blind bake the pie crust, crimping the edges first. Cool pie crust completely. You can do this up to 3 days ahead of time. Cover cooled crust tightly and refrigerate until ready to fill.

Filling:
4 large egg yolks
1/4 c (30g) cornstarch
14 oz can full fat coconut milk
1 cup (240ml) half-and-half
2/3 c (130g) granulated sugar
1/4 tsp salt
1 c (80g) sweetened shredded coconut
2 tbsp (28g) unsalted butter, softened to room temperature
1 tsp vanilla
optional: 1/2 tsp coconut extract

Whisk the egg yolks and cornstarch together. Set aside. Whisk the coconut milk, half-and-half, granulated sugar, and salt together in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Whisking occasionally, bring to a boil. Boil for 2 min, then reduce temperature to medium-low heat. Once boiling, remove ~1/2 c of the mixture and, in a slow and steady stream, whisk into the egg yolk and cornstarch mixture. Keep those egg yolks moving so they don’t scramble. In a slow and steady stream, pour and whisk the egg yolk mixture into the pot. The pudding will immediately begin to bubble and thicken. Stand back and use caution as the bubbles may burst. Whisk and cook for 90 s. Remove from heat and stir in the coconut, butter, vanilla, and coconut extract (if using Pour warm filling into cooled pie crust. Cover tightly with plastic wrap directly on the surface of the pudding (to prevent a skin from forming) and refrigerate for at least 3 hr or overnight until chilled and thickened. Pie may be refrigerated for up to 1 day.
  
Whipped cream:
1  1/2 c (360ml) cold heavy cream or heavy whipping cream
3 tbsp (20g) confectioners’ sugar or granulated sugar
3/4 tsp vanilla 
optional for garnish: unsweetened coconut shavings, coconut chips, or sweetened shredded coconut

Using a hand mixer or a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, whip the heavy cream, sugar, and vanilla extract on medium-high speed until medium peaks form, ~3-4 min. Medium peaks are between soft/loose peaks and stiff peaks and are the perfect consistency for topping and piping on desserts. Pipe or spread the whipped cream on top. Garnish with extra coconut, if desired. Chill the pie uncovered up to a few hours or you can serve it immediately.

