Cornish Pasty
  --Kimberly Killebrew

Pastry:
3 1/2 c (450 g) ap flour
1 tsp salt
5 oz (140 g) unsalted butter , very cold, diced
5 oz (140 g) lard , very cold
2/3 c (155 ml) ice cold water

Place the flour and salt in a food processor and pulse a few times until combined. Add the cold butter and lard and pulse a few more times until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add the water a little at a time, pulsing between additions, until the mixture begins to come together. DO NOT over-mix the dough or the pastry crust will be tough and won't be flaky. Form the dough into a ball, wrap in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 3 hr before using (this is crucial). (Can be refrigerated for a few days or frozen for up to 3 months.)

Pasties:
1 lb (450 g) beef skirt steak or sirloin , cut into small cubes
1 lb (450 g) firm, waxy potato, peeled and diced in 1/4" cubes, or slice them according to personal preference 
8 oz (225 g) rutabaga , peeled and diced in 1/4 inch cubes, or slice them according to personal preference
7 oz (195 g) yellow onion , chopped
salt and pepper to taste
unsalted butter (for cutting in slices to lay inside the pasties)
ap flour (for sprinkling inside the pasties)
1 large egg , lightly beaten

Preheat the oven to 350F. Cut it into 6 equal pieces (rolling the dough into a log and then cutting makes this easier). Wrap and keep the other 5 pieces chilled in the fridge while you're working on one. Roll the dough out on a lightly floured work surface to a 8" circle that's ~1/8" thick. You can use an 8" plate as your guide and cut the dough around it to form your circle. Put layer of potatoes down the center of the pastry circle, leaving ~3/4" space on the top and bottom edges of the pastry dough. Lightly sprinkle with salt and pepper. Next add a layer of rutabagas, onions and finally the beef, adding a light sprinkling of salt and pepper between each layer. Lay a couple pats of butter on top of the beef and sprinkle a little flour over the filling. Wet the tips of your fingers and lightly moisten the edges of the pastry dough. For this next part work gently so that the filling doesn't puncture through the dough.  If this happens, patch up the hole with some of the scrap pieces of pastry dough.  Bring the sides up and seal the pasty down the middle. Turn the pasty onto its side and crimp the edges in traditional Cornish fashion. Assemble the remaining pasties and lay them on a lined baking sheet. Use a sharp knife to cut a slit in the center of each pasty. Lightly brush each pasty with the beaten egg mixture. Bake the Cornish pasties on the middle rack for 40-50 min until golden in color. Remove from the oven and let them sit for ~10 min (they will be very hot inside) before eating. 


Notes: **starchy potatoes will disintegrate and turn mushy so be sure to use a firm, waxy potato that will hold its shape
