Jaggery and Cream Cheese Hand Pies
  --Chetna Makan

Filling:
50 g (1 3/4 oz) jaggery, roughly chopped (heaping 1/4 c)
50 g (1/2 c) raw cashews
50 g (1/2 c) raw almonds

In a food processor, pulse together the jaggery, cashews, and almonds until you get a coarse powder. 

Crust:
300 g (2 1/2 c) ap flour + more for dusting
25 g (2 tbsp) granulated sugar
1/2 tsp kosher vsalt
100 g (~7 tbsp) cold unsalted butter, cut into cubes
100 g (~3 1/2 oz) cold cream cheese, broken into pieces
6 tbsp ice water + more as needed
1 large egg, beaten with a fork

In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, and salt. Add the butter and use your fingers to incorporate it until you get a texture that looks like peas and bread crumbs. Add the cream cheese and use your fingers to combine until it resembles gravel. Add the water, 1 tbsp at a time until it just holds together when squeezed. (If you’d like, you can also make the dough in a food processor.) Transfer the dough to a work surface. Knead the dough for a few seconds just to combine, then divide the dough in half. Flatten each piece of dough slightly, and shape into a rough rectangle. Wrap both in plastic wrap, and place in the refrigerator to chill for 1 hr to 2 days. Line 2 sheet pans with parchment paper. On a floured work surface, roll out one piece of dough (leaving the other piece in the fridge) into a roughly 12x10" rectangle, then trim the edges straight. Working from the longer side, cut the big rectangle into 8 rectangles. Place 4 rectangles on one of the prepared sheet pans. Leaving a 1 cm border, spoon ~2 tbsp of the filling evenly over the surface of each rectangle. Working with one at a time, brush the border of one piece of dough with egg wash, then place one of the remaining rectangles on top of the filling and press all sides together to seal. Brush the top of each pie with a little egg wash. Prick the surface of the top rectangle a few times with a fork, then firmly press the fork tines around the edges to seal. Repeat with the remaining 3 pies on this sheet pan, then transfer to the refrigerator. Repeat the same with the other portion of the dough, then refrigerate for at least 15 min. While the pies are chilling, heat the oven to 355F, with a rack in the upper and lower third. Bake both trays of pies for 30-40 min, rotating the pans halfway through cooking, until the pastries are lightly golden. After a few minutes, transfer to a wire rack, then let cool completely.


