Lemon Meringue Pie
  --America's Test Kitchen

Crust:
1 1/4 c unbleached ap flour
1/2 tsp salt
1 tbsp granulated sugar
6 tbsp unsalted butter chilled, and cut into 1/4" pieces
4 tbsp vegetable shortening, chilled
3-4 tbsp cold water
1/2 c graham cracker crumbs

Mix flour, slaat, and sugar in food processor fitted with steel blade. Scatter butter pieces over flour mixture, tossing to coat butter with a little of the flour. Cut butter into flour with 5-1 s pulses. Add shortening, continue cutting in until flour is pale yellow and resembles coarse cornmeal with butter bits no larger than a small pea, ~4 more 1 s pulses. Turn mixture into medium bowl. Sprinkle 3 tbsp cold water over mixture. Using rubber spatula, fold water into mixture, press down on dough mixture with broad side of spatula until dough sticks together. If dough will not come together, add up to 1 tbsp more cold water. Shape dough into ball, then flatten into 4" wide disk. Dust lightly with flour, wrap in plastic, and refrigerate for 30 min before rolling. Generously sprinkle work area with 2 tbsp graham cracker crumbs. Place dough on work area. Scatter a few more crumbs over dough. Roll dough from center to edges, turning it into a 9" disk, rotating a quarter turn after each stroke and sprinkling additional crumbs underneath and on top as necessary to coat havily. Flip dough over and continue to roll, but not rotate, to form a 13" disk slightly less than 1/8" thick. Fold dough into quarters; place dough point in center of 9" pyrex pie pan. Unford to cover pan completely, letting excess drape over lip. To fit dough to pan, lift edge of dough with one hand and press dough into pan with other; repeat process around circumference of pan to ensure dough fits properly and is not stretched. Trim all around, 1/2" past lib of pan. Tuck 1/2" of overhang under so folded edge is flush with lip, press to seal. Flute edge. Refrigerate until firm, ~30 min. Use fork to prick shell at 1/" intervals; press a doubled 12" square of foil into pie shell; prick again and refrigerate at least 30 min. Adjust oven rack to lowest position, heat oven to 400F. Bake, checking occasionally for ballooning, until crust is firmly set, ~15 min. Reduce oven temp to 350F, remove foil, and continue to bake until crust is crisp and rich brown in color, ~10 min longer.

Filling:
1 c sugar
1/4 c cornstarch
1/8 tsp salt
1 1/2 c cold water
6 large egg yolks
1 tbsp lemon zest
1/2 c lemon juice (2-3 lemons)
2 tbsp unsalted butter

Mix sugar, cornstarch, salt, and water in large, nonreactive saucepan. Bring mix to simmer over medium heat, whisking occasionally at beginning of the process and more frequently as mixture begins to thicken. When mixture starts to simmer and turn translucent, whisk in yokls, 2 at a time. Whisk in zest, then lemon juice, and finally butter. Bring mixture to a brisk simmer, whisking constantly. remove from heat, place plastic wrap directly on surface of filling to keep hot and prevent skin from forming. 

Meringue:
1 tbsp cornstarch
1/4 ttsp cream of tartar
4 large egg whites
1/2 c sugar
1/2 tsp vanilla

Mix cornstarch with 1/3 c water in small saucepan; bring to simmer, whisking occasionally at beginning and more frequently as mixture thickens. When mixture starts to simmer and turn translucent, remove from heat. Let cool while beating whites. Heat oven to 325F. Mix cream of tartar and sugar together. Beat egg whites and vanilla until frothy. Beat in sugar mixture, 1 tbsp at a time, until sugar is incorporated and mixture forms soft peaks. Add cornstarch mixture, 1 tbsp at a time, continue to beat meringue to stiff peaks. Remove plastic from filling and return to very low heat during last minute or so of beating meringue. Pour hot filling into shell. Using a rubber spatula, immediately distribute meringue evenly around edge then center of pie to keep it from sinking into filling. Make sure meringue attaches to crust to prevent shrinking. Use spoon to create peaks all over. Bake until meringue is golden brown, ~20 min. Transfer to wire rack and cool to room temp. Serve.
