Lemon Verbena and Raspberry Meringue Pie

crust:
1 chilled pie dough disc, rolled into a 13" diameter circle
1 tbsp whole milk, for brushing
1-2 tsp white sugar fpr dusting

Transfer the chileld, rolled out pie dough to a pie plate. Let the crust hang over the edge by 3/4". Roll the overhang under itself to create a cylinder wall and crimp. Use the index finger of one handto push the dough between the thumb and index finger of your opposite hand to form a U shape. Continue around the pie plate until the entire crust is crimped. Freeze until very firm, 30-40 min. While the dough is chilling, preheat oven to 425F and make a foil ring cover: Tear a 12" piece of foil and use a pair of scissors to cut the center into a circle. Bend the foil and round the edges, creating a 2" wide ring, and set aside. Tear a large piece of foil, large enough to cover the surface and sides of the piecrust, and set aside with 2 1/2 - 3 c of pie weights or dry beans. Remove the piecrust from the freezer and prick the bottom and sides of the crust. Brush the crimped edges with milk and sprinkle with sugar. Line the bottom and sides of the pie with the prepared foil piece and fill with pie weights or beans, making sure they cover the inside edges. Bake the pie until the crimped edges turn golden brown, 15-25 min. Remove foil and pie weights. cover the golden edges with the prepared foil ring, return to the oven and bake until the pie dries out and the bottom and sides are golden brown, 10-25 min. Let cool completely before filling.

filling:
2 c + 2 tbsp whole milk
3 c fresh lemon verbena leaves (2-3 bunches)
1/2 c rosemary leaves (3-4 sprigs)
1/4 c thyme leaves (3-4 sprigs)
5-7 lemon peel strips from 1 lemon, removed using a vegetable peeler
1/2 c + 2 tbsp sugar, divided
6 large egg yolks
1/4 c cornstarch
1 tbsp fresh lemon juice (1/2 lemon)
1/4 tsp kosher salt
3 tbsp cold unsalted butter

In a medium saucepan over medium high heat, bring the milk to a low boil and remove from heat. Add the lemon verbena leaves, herbs, lemon peels, and 1/4 c sugar, and stir to dissolve. Set aside and steep for 30 min. Strain into a medium bowl through a fine mesh sieve and discard herbs. Return the milk to the saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium heat. In a medium bowl, whisk the egg yolks with the remaining sugar and cornstarch, and set aside. Simultaneously whisk the yolk mixture and gradually add ~2 c of the hot milk into it to temper. Pour the mixture back into the saucepan and cook over medium low heat, stirring with a heatproof spatula, until the mixture is thick and pudding like consistency, 2-4 min. Remove from heat, add juice and salt, and whisk until smooth, ~1 min. Strain through a fine mesh sieve and let sit for 2 min. Whisk in the cold butter and chill in the fridge until set, ~2 hrs. Makes 2 c pie filling. Can be made up to 2 days in advance.

meringue:
2 egg whites
pinch kosher salt
pinch cream tartar
1/4 c sugar
1 tsp fresh lemon juice

In a small saucepan over medium heat, bring 2" of water to a simmer. In the bowl of a stand mixer, combine the egg whites, salt, cream of tartar, and sugar. Set the bowl of whites over the simmering water and whisk until the egg whites are foamy and warm to the touch, 4 min. Remove from the heat, wipe the outside of the bowl, and attach to the mixer fitted with a whisk attachment. Add the lemon juice and whip on low speed for 5 min. Increase the speed to medium high and continue to whip until stiff, glossy peaks form, ~7 min. Makes 2 c of meringue.

Assembly:
4 c fresh raspberries

Pick through the raspberries and set aside 2 c of whole firm berries. In a small bowl, mash the remaining berries to a compote and set aside. Whisk the cold custard to loosen and pour 1 c into the bottom of the cooled prebaked pie shell. Spoon the raspberry compote on top in a single layer, and spread the remaining custard over top. Cover with the whole raspberries. The assembled pie can be made, covered, and chilled in the fridge for up to 3 hrs in advance. To serve, spread the meringue over the berris. Use a blowtorch to toast the meringue until lightly charred in some spots.

