Mushroom Pancetaa Quiche with Caramelize Shallots and Sage
  --Thyme & Temp

Crust:
12 tbsp (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, well chilled
1/3 c vegetable shortening, well chilled
3 c ap flour
1 tsp kosher salt
1 tbsp sugar
1/2 c iced water
1 tbsp chilled vodka

Cube butter and shortening and chill in the freezer for 10 min. In the bowl of a food processor, combine 2 c of the flour, salt, and sugar. Pulse briefly two times. Remove butter and shortening from the freezer and add to the bowl of the food processor. Pulse 6-8 times, being careful not to over-process the dough. There should be big chunks of butter visible in the dough. Pour the butter/flour mixture into a large mixing bowl and use a rubber spatula to stir in the remaining 1 c of flour. Sprinkle the vodka and ~3 tbsp of ice water to start over the mixture and mix it up with the rubber spatula. If necessary, add more ice water. You don’t want the dough to be wet, but you don’t want any loose, powdery flour in the bowl either. Knead the dough gently once or twice and divide into 2 balls. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and chill at least 1 hr or up to 2 days. Preheat oven to 325F. Prepare an 8 or 9" spring-form pan with butter. Placing the dough between 2 sheets of parchment paper, roll out dough to 15-16" so there will be enough over-hang once it’s placed in the spring-form pan. Once rolled to the suggested size, gently place the dough, still between the parchment, in the refrigerator for 10 min to chill. Once chilled, remove the top layer of parchment and gently roll the dough on to your rolling pin and transfer to the spring-form pan. Delicately line the pan with your fingers using any leftover dough to fill holes or tears. Leave ~2" of over-hang to press along the edge—it can be trimmed when you’re finished and removing from the pan. Line the dough with foil or parchment and fill with pie weights, dried beans, or rice. We used a combo of all three since this was so deep that our pie weights could only fill half. (Discard the beans or rice once par baked. They’ve been cooked!) Place in the oven and bake for 40 min. Once completed, remove the weights and bake the crust for an additional 15 min or until just lightly browned. Prepare the filling during this baking process.

Filling:
4 oz pancetta, diced (3 slices of thick-cut bacon would work as well)
1 tbsp butter
3 shallots, sliced (makes 1 c)
1 lb oyster mushrooms
8 oz baby bella mushrooms, sliced
1 tbsp fresh sage, chopped
1 tsp fresh thyme
Salt and pepper to taste
1 c fresh arugula
6 eggs
1 1/2 c heavy cream
1 1/2 c whole milk
1 1/4 tsp salt
1 tsp pepper
1 tsp smoked paprika
1 c gruyere cheese

In a cold sauté pan, add pancetta and bring heat to a medium low allowing it render and cook to almost crisp, ~8 min. Remove, and set aside on a paper towel. Do not discard the oil that’s been rendered. Increase heat to medium and add butter to the oil left in the pan. Add the shallots and stir frequently until caramelized, ~12 min. Remove from pan and set aside with pancetta. Add olive oil and mushrooms to sauté pan and cook mushrooms until soft, ~12 min. Turn off heat and combine mushrooms with pancetta, shallots, herbs, arugula, and salt and pepper to taste. Layer the bottom of the par baked crust with half of the cheese and then half of the mushroom filling. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the eggs, dairy, and seasoning until frothy. Pour custard ~3/4 of the way up the shell and add remaining filling, top with cheese and place in the oven. Bake at 325F for ~75 min. The top should be golden brown in spots and mostly firm when tapped with just the slightest jiggle at the very middle of the quiche. Remove from the oven and let cool in the pan for 15 min. When cooled, you can choose to break off the overhang of the crust or leave as-is before releasing the spring-form and removing from the bottom-up.



