Pecan Rye Pumpkin Pie
  --Claire Saffitz and Brad Leone

Crust:
1/4 c rye flour (or ap flour)
1 tbsp sugar
3/4 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 c ap flour + more for dusting
3/4 c (1 1/2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 large egg white, beaten to blend
ice water

Whisk rye flour, sugar, salt, and ap flour in a large bowl to combine. Add butter and toss to evenly coat. Working quickly and aggressively, use your fingers to rub butter into flour to create large shaggy pieces of dough. Drizzle 5 tbsp ice water over, running your fingers through flour mixture to evenly distribute. Knead dough in bowl until it starts to come together, it should look a little dry, but add more water by the tsp ful if needed, just until dough comes together. Turn dough out onto worksurface and knead 1-2 more times, pressing to incorporate shaggy edges and any loose bits. Dust surface and dough lightly with flour. Using your hands, form dough into about a 7x" rectangle. Using rolling pin, gently tap and press dough to compact and tidy up edges. Roll out dough, dusting dough and surface as needed, until 3 times longer than when you started. Fold dough over onto itself in thirds like a letter to make a square. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, at least 30 min. Preheat oven to 400F. Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface to ~12" diameter. Wrap dough around rolling pin and unfurl into 9" pie dish. Gently lift dough so it slumps down into edges of dish. Trim overhang and crimp as desired. Line crust with parchment paper or foil. Place dish on a rimmed baking sheet and fill with pie weights or dried beans. Bake until edges of crust start to brown, ~20 min. Remove parchment and weights. Decrease oven temp to 350 and bake crust until edges are golden, 20-25 min. Remove from oven and brush 1 tbsp egg white over bottom of crust. Return to oven and bake until crust is golden brown, 5-10 min. Reserve remaining egg white for topping. 

Filling:
3 large eggs + 1 yolk
15 oz can pumpkin
3/4 c heavy cream
1/4 c sugar
2 tbsp rye whiskey
1 tsp cinnamon
1 tsp ground ginger
1/4 tsp freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 tsp cardamom
small pinch cloves
8 tbsp light brown sugar, divided
3 tbsp unsalted butter, melted, divided
1 1/4 tsp diamon crysal or 1 tsp kosher salt, divided
1 1/2 c whole pecans
1 tbsp pure maple syrup
whipped cream for serving (optional

Combine eggs, yolk, pumpkin, cream, sugar, whiskey, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, cardamom, cloves, 6 tbsp brown sugar, 2 tbsp butter, and 1/2 tsp diamond crystal or 1/4 tsp kosher salt in a large bowl and blend with an immersion blender until smooth; try not to aerate. (Can use a blender and do it in batches.) Pour into crust and bake pie until filling is puffed and mostly set with just a slight wobble in the center when gently shaken, 40-45 min. Just before pie is done, toast pecans on rimmed baking sheet, tossing once, until slightly darkened and fragrant, 8-10 min. Whisk reserved egg white, remaining brown sugar, and remaining salt in a small bowl until foamy, ~30 s. Add syrup and remaining butter; whisk just to combine. Add pecans and toss to coat. Carefully remove pie from oven and top with pecan mixtre, allowing any excess egg white mixture to drip back into bowl. Return pie to oven and bak until filling is completely set and nuts are not tacky to the touch, 8-10 min. Transfer pie to wire rack and let cool at least 2 hrs. Serve with whipped cream if desired.


Notes: Dough can be made 3 days ahead; keep chilled. Crust can be baked 3 days ahead; store tightly wrapped at room temp. Pie can be baked 1 day ahead; store uncovered in a cool oven or at room temp.
