Guinea Fowl Potpie

Poached guinea fowl:
1 2 1/2-3 lb guinea fowl (can substitute small chicken)
1 large carrot, peeled and halved lengthwise
2 celery stalks, quartered
1 medium yellow onion, halved
6 garlic cloves, smashed and peeled
2 thyme sprigs
2 sage sprigs
12 black peppercorns
4 c reduced sodium chicken stock
3 c hard cider
2-3 c cold water
pinch kosher salt

In a large pot, combine the ingredients for poaching the bird. Partially cover and bring to a boil over medium high heat. Reduce the heat and cook at a bare simmer, kimming away the scum that rises to the surface, until the fowl is cooked through, 45 min. Transfer the fowl to a large bowl and set aside. When cool enough to handle, remove the skin and discard. Tear the meat into bit size pieces and return them to the large bowl. Cover with a couple tbsp of the stock so the meat doesn't dry out. Strain the stock, discarding the vegetables, and return it to the pot. Place over medium high heat and boil until reduced by half, about 30 min. Makes 5-6 c of stock. Reserve 1 3/4 c and keep warm; save the rest for another use. Return the pot to the stove.

Pastry crust:
1 2/3 c (8oz) ap flour
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c (1 stick) unsalted cold butter, cubed
1 egg, lightly beaten
2-4 tbsp chilled water
2 tbsp heavy cream

In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, salt, and pepper. Cut the butter into the flour mixture until it resembles coardse bread crumbs. Add the egg and 2 tbsp of water. Using a fork, stir until the dough binds together adding more water as needed. Gather the dough into a loose ball and wrap it in plastic wrap, using the plastic as an aid to tuck and seal the dough into a smooth 4" disk. Chill for at least 30 min up to 3 days.

Filling:
7 tbsp unsalted butter, divided + more if needed
2 leeks, white parts only, sliced (1 1/2 c)
pinch kosher salt and black pepper
2 c (6 oz) cremini mushrooms
1 c (5oz) smoked ham, torn or cut into 1/2" pieces
1 apple, peeled, cored, and chopped
2 tbsp parsley, chopped
2 1/2 tbsp ap flour
2 tbsp heavy cream

Preheat oven to 375F. Wipe the pot clean and add 2 tbsp of the butter and the leeks. Place over medium high heat and season with a pinch of salt and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally until softened, 5-7 min. Add to the fowl. Return the pot to medium high heat and add 2 1/2 tbsp of the butter. Add the mushrooms, season with a pinch of salt and pepper, and saute until barely golden brown and most of their liquid has been released, 5-7 min. Add to the fowl mixture, along with the smoked ham, apple, and parsley. Wipe out the pot and melt the remaining 2 1/2 tbsp of butter over medium high heat. Add the flour, whisking constantly to mix, and cook without browning, 1-2 min. Remove from the heat and slowly drizzle in half of the stock, whisking constantly to break up any lumps. Return to medium high heat and whisk in the remaining stock (it should be boiling pretty rapidly). Continue to cook, whisking constantly, until the roux is smooth and thickened and lightly coats the back of a spoon, 3-5 min more.  Remove from the heat and stir in the heavy cream; taste and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Combine the roux and the fowl mixture in a deep 9" baking dish (or any large oven safe 6-8 quart dish)


Roll out the dough on a lightly floured piece of parchment paper to a thickness of 1/8". Score and X in the center if you are using a pie steamer. If you aren't using a pie steamer, transfer the dough as is and score 4-6 slits once the pie is crimped. Lay the pastry on top of the pie filling and wiggle the pie steamer into the scored X. Use a paring knife to cut off the excess dough hanging over the edges of the dish. Brush the pie with 2 tbsp of heavy cream and bake until the edges are deep golden, 30-40 min. Let cool 15 min before serving.

