Pumpkin Chiffon Pie
  --Adam Rapoport
  
Crust:
12 graham crackers
2 tbsp sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt
6 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and slightly cooled

Preheat oven to 325F. Pulse graham crackers in food processor until broken down into fine crumbs, should yield ~2 c. Set aside 2 tbsp crumbs for garnish. Add sugar and salt and pulse just to combine. Add butter and pulse until mixture is the consistency of wet sand. Transfer to 9 1/2" diameter deep pie dish. Using a measuring cup, press crumbs firmly onto bottom and up sides of dish. Bake crust until fragrant and edges start to take on color, 20-25 min. 

Filling:
1 envelope unflavored gelatin (2 1/2 tsp)
1 tsp cinnamon
1/4 tsp nutmeg
3/4 (scant) c + 2 tbsp sugar, divided
3/4 tsp kosher salt, divided
3 large eggs, whites and yolks separated
3/4 c whole milk
1 1/4 c unsweetend pumpkin puree (15 oz can)
3/4 c heavy cream
1/4 c sour cream

Stir gelatin, cinnamon, nutmeg, scant 1/2 c sugar, and 1/2 tsp salt in a small saucepan. Whisk yolks and milk in a small bowl to combine, then whisk into sugar mixture. Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, until mixture begins to thicken and coats back of a spoon, do not let it boil, ~5 min. Stir in pumpkin and remove from heat. Transfer to a large bowl and chill until cool, ~10 min. Meanwhile, using an electric mixer on medium, beat whites in a large bowl until soft peaks form. With motor running, gradually add a scant 1/4 c sugar and continue to beat until stiff peaks form, 5-7 min. Mix 1/3 of egg white mixture into chilled pumpkin unti smooth. Gently fold remaining egg white mixture into pumpkin in 2 additions until incorporated, but don't overmix. Pour filling into crust; smooth top. Cover and chill overnight. Vigorously whisk cream in a large bowl until soft peaks form. Fold in sour cream and remaining 2 tbsp sugar and 1/4 tsp sal just to combine. Using large spoon, dollop a generous amount of whipped cream in the center of pie. Sprinkle with reserved crumbs. Slice and serve with any remaining whipped cream alongside.
