Pumpkin Pie
  --Cook's Illustrated

Crust:
1 ¼	c unbleached ap flour (6 1/4 oz)
½	tsp table salt
1	tbsp sugar
6	tbsp (3/4 stick) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/4" slices
¼	c vegetable shortening, cold, cut into two pieces
2	tbsp vodka, cold (see note)
2	tbsp cold water

Process 3/4 c flour, salt, and sugar in food processor until combined, ~two 1-s pulses. Add butter and shortening and process until homogenous dough just starts to collect in uneven clumps, ~10 s; dough will resemble cottage cheese curds with some very small pieces of butter remaining, but there should be no uncoated flour. Scrape bowl with rubber spatula and redistribute dough evenly around processor blade. Add remaining 1/2 c flour and pulse until mixture is evenly distributed around bowl and mass of dough has been broken up, 4-6 quick pulses. Empty mixture into medium bowl. Sprinkle vodka and water over mixture. With rubber spatula, use folding motion to mix, pressing down on dough until dough is slightly tacky and sticks together. Flatten dough into 4" disk. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate at least 45 min or up to 2 days. Adjust oven rack to lowest position, place rimmed baking sheet on rack, and heat oven to 400F. Remove dough from refrigerator and roll out on generously floured (up to 1/4 c) work surface to 12" circle ~1/8" thick. Roll dough loosely around rolling pin and unroll into pie plate, leaving at least 1" overhang on each side. Working around circumference, ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with one hand while pressing into plate bottom with other hand. Refrigerate 15 min. Trim overhang to 1/2" beyond lip of pie plate. Fold overhang under itself; folded edge should be flush with edge of pie plate. Using thumb and forefinger, flute edge of dough. Refrigerate dough-lined plate until firm, ~15 min. Remove pie pan from refrigerator, line crust with foil, and fill with pie weights or pennies. Bake on rimmed baking sheet 15 min. Remove foil and weights, rotate plate, and bake 5-10 additional min until crust is golden brown and crisp. Remove pie plate and baking sheet from oven. 

Filling:
1	c heavy cream
1	c whole milk
3	large eggs + 2 large yolks
1	tsp vanilla 
15oz can pumpkin puree
1	c drained candied yams from 15oz can (see note)
¾	c sugar
¼	c maple syrup
2	tsp grated fresh ginger
½	tsp ground cinnamon
¼	tsp ground nutmeg
1	tsp table salt

While pie shell is baking, whisk cream, milk, eggs, yolks, and vanilla together in medium bowl. Combine pumpkin puree, yams, sugar, maple syrup, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt in large heavy-bottomed saucepan; bring to sputtering simmer over medium heat, 5-7 min. Continue to simmer pumpkin mixture, stirring constantly and mashing yams against sides of pot, until thick and shiny, 10-15 min. Remove pan from heat and whisk in cream mixture until fully incorporated. Strain mixture through fine-mesh strainer set over medium bowl, using back of ladle or spatula to press solids through strainer. Rewhisk mixture and transfer to warm prebaked pie shell. Return pie plate with baking sheet to oven and bake pie for 10 min. Reduce heat to 300F and continue baking until edges of pie are set (instant-read thermometer inserted in center registers 175F), 20-35 minutes longer. Transfer pie to wire rack and cool to room temperature, 2-3 hr. Cut into wedges and serve.


Notes:
If candied yams are unavailable, regular canned yams can be substituted. The best way to judge doneness is with an instant-read thermometer. The center 2" of the pie should look firm but jiggle slightly. The pie finishes cooking with residual heat; to ensure that the filling sets, cool it at room temperature and not in the refrigerator. To ensure accurate cooking times and a crisp crust, the filling should be added to the prebaked crust when both the crust and filling are warm. Serve at room temperature with whipped cream. Vodka is essential to the texture of the crust and imparts no flavor; do not substitute extra water. The alcohol is key to our recipe; if you don't have vodka on hand, you can use another 80 proof liquor.


v2
 --America's Test Kitchen

Shell:
1 1/4 c unbleached ap flour
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 tsp sugar
10 tbsp unsalted butter, chilled and cut into 1/4" pats
3-3 1/2 tbsp ice water

Mix flour, salt, and sugar in food processor fitted with steel blade. Scatter butter over dry ingredients; process until mixture resembles cornmeal, 7-12 s. Turn mixture into a medium sized bowl. Drizzle 3 tbsp water over mixture. with blade side of rubber spatula, cut mixture into little balls. Then press down on mixture with broad side of spatula to balls stick together in large clumps. If dough resists gathering, sprinkle remaining water over dry, crumbly patches and press a few more times. Form dough into a ball with your hands; wrap in plastic, then flatten into a 4" disk. Refrigerate for at least 30 min; can be refrigerated for 2 days or, if sealed airtight in plastic bag, frozen for up to 6 months. Generously sprinkle surface with flour. Remove dough from wrapping and place disk in center; dust top with flour. If it has been chilled for more than 1 hr, let dough stand until it gives slightly when pressed, 5-10 min. Roll dough in all directions, from center to edges, rotating a quarter turn and strewing flour underneath as necessary after each stroke. Flip disk over when it is 9" in diameter and continue to roll, but don't rotate, in all directions, until it is 13-14" in diameter and just under 1/8" thick. Fold dough in quarters and place the corner in the center of a pyrex pie plate measuring 9-9 1/2" across top. Carefully unfold dough to cover pan completely, with excess dough draped over pan lip. With one hand, pick up edges of dough; use index finger of other hand to press dough around pan bottom; use fingertips to press against walls. Trim dough overhanging to an even 1/2" all around. Tuck overhang back under itself so folded edge is flush with pan lip. Press and seal (and crimp). Refrigerate for at least 20 min (or freeze for 5 m) to firm dough shell. Using fork, dock dough on bottom and sides. Flaten a 12" square of foil inside shell, pressing it flush against corners, sides, and over rim. Prick foil in ~12 places with fork. Chill shell for at least 30 min, preferrably an hour or more, to all dough to relax. Adjust oven rack to lowest position and heat oven to 400F. (Start prepping filling when shell goes in). Bake 15 min, pressing down on foil with protected hands to flatten any puffs. Remove foil and bake for 8-10 min longer, or until interior just begins to color.

Filling:
2 c (16 oz) plain pumpkin puree, canned or fresh
1 c packed dark brown sugar
2 tsp  ginger
1 tsp fresh grated nutmeg
2 tsp cinnamon
1/4 tsp cloves
1/2 tsp salt
2/3 c heavy cream
2/3 c milk
4 large eggs

Process pumpkin, brown sugar, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and salt in a food processor fitted with steel blade for 1 min. Transfer to a 3 qt heavy bottomed saucepan; bring it to a sputtering simmer over medium high heat. Cook pumpkin, stirring constantly, until thick and shiny, ~5 min. As soo as pie shell comes out of oven, whisk heavy cream and milk into pumpkinand bring to a bare simmer. Process eggs in food processor until whites and yolks are mixed, ~5 s. With motor running, slowly pour ~1/2 hot pumpkin mixture through feed. Stop machine and scrape in remaining pumpkin. Process 30 s longer. Immediately pour warm filling into hot pie shell. Ladle any excess filling into pie after it has baked for 5 min or so. Bake until filling is puffed, dry looking, and lightly cracked around edges, and center wiggles like gelatin when pie is shaken, ~25 min. Cool on rack for at least 1 hr.

Topping:
1 1/3 c heavy cream (cold)
3 tbsp confectioners' sugar
1 tbsp brandy

Beat cream at medium speed to soft peaks; gradually add sugar then brandy. Beat to stiff peaks. Serve with pie.

