Fried Quince Pies with Truffle Honey and Aged Basalmic

Filling:
2 quince
1 small apple
2 1/2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 sprig rosemary
scant 1/3 c sweet wine, ex moscato
2 tsp cornstarch
1/4 c + 3 tbsp sugar
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp cinnamon

Peel, core, and dice the quince, removing the fibrous white membrane in the center. Peel, core, and dice the apple. Melt the butter in a large, heavy bottomed pot over medium heat until it bubbles and starts to brown. Stir in the quince and apple, and cook until the fruit beings to soften, ~5 min. Stir in the rosemary sprig and continue to simmer. In a small bowl, whisk together the wine and cornstarch. Whisk the mixture into the fruit, followed by the sugar, salt, and cinnamon. Continue to simmer on medium to medium low heat until the fruit is soft but still has texture, ~8 min. Cool to room temp and remove the rosemary sprig. Makes 1 1/4 c filling. Refrigerate until needed.

Dough:
3 c + 1 tbsp ap flour
2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp kosher salt
3 tbsp cold unsalted butter, cubed
3 tbsp + 1 tsp shortening
1 egg, lightly beaten
1/4 c + 1 tbsp ice water

In a food processor, puls together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Pulse in the butter and shortening until the fats form pea sized pieces. Add the egg and the water. The dough will look crumbly, but should start to come together when kneaded on a lightly floured work surface. Form the dough into an 8" disk and cover in plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least 1 hr or overnight. On a lightly floured work surface, roll the dough into a large sheet ~1/8" thick. Using a 4" round cookie cutter, punch the dough into rounds. Gather the remaining trimmings and roll out again to make more rounds. Should make 16-20 rounds.

Pies:
2 sprigs rosemary, stemmed
1 egg
1/3 c honey
1 tbsp chopped black truffel, fresh or canned
1 tsp truffle oil
kosher salt
oil for frying
1 sprig sage, stemmed
confectioners' sugar
aged basalmic vinegar

Blend the egg and a splash of water to make egg wash. To shape each pie, place a heaping tbsp of filling in the center of a round and embed with a couple of rosemary leaves. Brush the edges with egg wash and fold the dough over to form a half moon. Press the edges together to seal. With a skewer, punch a hole in the center of each pie to let the steam escape. Place the pies on a parchment lined baking sheet, cover in plastic wrap, and freeze until ready to fry, at least 1 hr. In a small bowl, mix together the honey, truffle, truffle oil, and a pinch of salt. In a large wide pot, heat ~3" of oil to 360F. Fry the remaining rosemary and sage until the leaves become crisp, ~20 s. Drain the leaves on a paper towel lined plate. Using a skimmer or slotted spoon, carefully lower the pies into the oil in batches. Fry until golden on all sides, 3-5 min. Drain the pies on paper towel and season with a pinch of salt. Dust with confectioners' sugar and serve, drizzling the tops of the pies with truffle honey and a scattering of crushed fried herbs. Finish with dots of basalmic vinegar.
