Single Pie Crust
  --America's Test Kitchen

12 tbsp unsalted butter
3/4 c (3 3/4 oz) + 1/2 (2.5 oz) ap flour, divided
1 tbsp sugar
1/2 tsp salt
4 tbsp ice water

Grate 2 tbsp butter, place in freezer until needed. Cut rest of butter into 1/2" chunks. Pulse 3/4 c ap flour, sugar, and salt in food processor until combined. Add butter and process for 30 s until it makes a solid dough. Break up the dough ball into bowl of processor and sprinkle remaining 1/2 c ap flour over top, pulse 4-5 times until just incorporated. Pour into bowl, add frozen butter and toss together. Add water, starting with 2 tbsp, and stir in. Add 2 more tbsp and combine until it can be formed against side of bowl. Pour out onto a sheet of plastic wrap, gentlt shape into a 5" round, getting rid of any fissures; wrap and refrigerate for at least 2 hrs. Can make up to 2 days in advance. Roll out on floured surface to a 12" circle. Rest for 30 min in refrigerator after putting into tin prior to baking.



"Foolproof" Single Pie Crust
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
1 1/4 c ap unbleached flour
1/2 tsp salt
1 tbsp sugar
6 tbsp cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/4" slices
1/4 c chilled vegetable shortening, cut into 2 pieces
2 tbsp cold vodka
2 tbsp ice water

Process 3/4 c flour, salt, and sugar together in food processor until combined, ~2 1 s pulses. Add butter and shortening and process until homogenous dough just starts to collect in uneven clumps, ~10 s (dough will resemble cottage cheese curds with some very small pieces of butter remaining, but there should be no uncoated flour). Scrape down sides and bottom of bowl with rubber spatula and redistribute dough evenly around processor blade. Add remaining 1/2 c flour and pulse until mixture is evenly distributed around bowl and mass of dough has been broken up, 4-6 quick pulses. Empty mixture into medium bowl. Sprinkle vodka and water over mixture. With rubber spatula, use folding motion to mix, pressing down on dough until dough is slightly tacky and sticks together. Flatten dough into 4" disk. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 45 min or up to 2 days. Adjust oven rack to lowest position, place rimmed baking sheet on oven rack, and heat oven to 425F. Remove dough from refrigerator and roll out on generously floured (up to 1/4 c) work surface to 12" circle about 1/8" thick. Roll dough loosely around rolling pin and unroll into pie plate, leaving at least 1" overhang on each side. Working around circumference, ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with one hand while pressing into plate bottom with other hand. Leave overhanging dough in place; refrigerate until dough is firm, ~30 min. Trim overhang to 1/" beyond lip of pie plate. Fold overhang under itself; folded edge should be flush with edge of pie plate. Flute dough or press the tines of a fork against dough to flatten it against rim of pie plate. Refrigerate dough-lined plate until firm, ~15 min. Remove pie pan from refrigerator, line crust with foil, and fill with pie weights or pennies. Bake for 15 min. Remove foil and weights, rotate plate, and bake for 5-10 min additional minutes until crust is golden brown and crisp.

