S'mores Banana Cream Pie
  --Rick Martinez

Pudding:
4 1/2 c whole milk, divided
2/3 c (133 g) sugar
1/3 c cornstarch
1/4 tsp sea salt, divided
5 large egg yolks
2 ts[ vanilla 
3/4 c shredded coconut
2 tbsp unsalted butter

Heat 4 c of the milk in a large saucepan over medium heat until steaming. Whisk the cornstarch and 1/2 tsp salt in a bowl. In a separate bowl, whisk the egg yolks and the sugar together until pale and creamy, then whisk in the cornstarch mix and remaining 1/2 c milk. Once steaming, whisk half of the hot milk into the egg mixture until smooth, then gradually whisk the egg-milk mixture into the saucepan. Cook over medium heat, whisking constantly, until the mixture boils, 6-8 min. Continue to cook, whisking constantly, until it has thickened to a pudding-like consistency, 3-4 min. Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla, coconut, and butter until completely incorporated and butter is melted. Transfer to a bowl, place a piece of plastic wrap directly on top of the pudding, and let cool to room temperature. Refrigerate until completely chilled and thickened, ~4 hr.

Crust:
15 sheets graham crackers, finely crumbled (230 g)
8 tbsp (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 c (75 g) granulated sugar
1/4 tsp sea salt
1/2 c (90 g) dark chocolate, chopped
2 bananas, peeled and thinly sliced

Arrange a rack in the center of the oven and heat to 350F. Place graham crackers in a food processor and grind into fine crumbs. Add butter, sugar, and 1/4 tsp salt and process to combine. The mixture should resemble wet sand. Transfer mixture into an ungreased 9" deep-dish pie plate. Using medium pressure and a flat bottomed measuring cup, pat down the crumbs into the bottom and sides of the plate until the crumbs form a compact crust. Pass the rounded front of a small spoon around the bottom corner where the edge and bottom meet to help make a rounded crust⁠—this helps prevent the crust from breaking apart when you cut slices. Bake until the crust is golden brown and the edges are darker brown, ~10 min. Immediately after you pull it from the oven, sprinkle chocolate over the top of the hot crust. The heat of the crust will melt the chocolate. After 10 min, use an offset spatula to spread the chocolate evenly over the top and sides of the crust. Let cool completely, then arrange the banana slices in an even layer. Chill in the refrigerator until ready to assemble.

Meringue:
5 large egg whites
1 c + 1 tbsp (255 g) sugar
1/4 tsp sea salt
1/4 tsp cream of tartar
1 tsp vanilla

Fill a wide saucepan with at least 1 1/2" of water. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce to a simmer. Combine egg whites, sugar, salt, and cream of tartar in the bowl of a stand mixer. Set over the simmering water, and begin stirring and scraping constantly with a rubber spatula until egg whites reach 175F (79C), ~9 min. Transfer to a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment and whip at high speed until meringue is glossy and beginning to ball up inside the whisk, ~5 min. Add vanilla and whip to combine. Remove bowl from mixer and use a kitchen blow torch to char the top of the meringue in the bowl. Return to the mixer and whip at high speed for ~15 s to combine. Repeat the process 4 more times. This will give you the flavor of toasted marshmallows.


Remove plastic and re-whisk the pudding vigorously until smooth and creamy. Pour into chilled crust and use an offset spatula to evenly spread over top. Spoon meringue over pie, swirling decoratively. Use a kitchen blow torch to toast meringue. Serve chilled.


