Strawberry Rhubarb Pie
  --America's Test Kitchen

Crust:
2 1/2 c (12 1/2 oz) ap flour
2 tbsp sugar + 3 tbsp for sprinkling
1 tsp salt
12 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1/4" slices and chilled
1/2 c shortening, cut into 4 pieces and chilled
1/4 c vodka, chilled
1/4 c cold water + extra for brushing

Process 1 1/2 c flour, 2 tbsp sugar, and salt in a food processor until combined, ~5 s. Scatter butter and shortening over top and process until incorporated and mixture begins to form uneven clumps with no remaining floury bits, ~15 s. Scrape down sides of bowl and redistribute dough evenly around processor blade. Sprinkle remaining 1 c flour over dough and pulse until mixture has broken up into pieces and is evenly distributed around bowl, 4-6 pulses. Transfer mixture to large bowl. Sprinkle vodka and water over mixture. Using rubber spatula, stir and press dough until it sticks together. Divide dough in half, form into a disk and wrap tightly in plastic wrap; refrigerate for 1 hr. Let chilled dough sit on counter to soften slightly, ~ 10 min, before rolling out. Wrapped dough can be refrigerated for 2 days or frozen for up to 1 month. If frozen, let dough thaw completely on counter before rolling.

Filling:
2 lbs rhubarb, trimmed and cut into 1/2" pieces (7 c)
1 1/4 c (8 3/4 oz) sugar
1 lb strawberries, hulled, halved if < 1", quartered if > 1" (3-4 c)
3 tbsp instant tapioca

Combine rhubarb and sugar in bowl and microwave for 1 1/2 min. Stir and continue to microwave until sugar is mostly dissolved, ~ 1 min longer. Stir in 1 c strawberries and set aside for 30 min, stirring once halfway through. Drain mixture through fine mesh strainer set over large saucepan. Return drained fruit to bowl and set aside. Add remaining strawberries to liquid and cook over medium high heat until strawberries are very soft and mixture is reduced to 1 1/2 c, ~10-15 min. Mash berries with fork (mixture doesn't have to be smooth). Add mixture and tapioca to rhubarb mixture and stir to combine. Set aside.

Assembly:
Roll 1 disk of dough into 12" circle on well floured surface. Loosely roll dough around pin and gently unroll onto 9" pie tin, letting excess hang over edge. Ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with your hand while pressing into plate bottom with your other hand. Wrap loosely in plastic and refrigerate until dough is firm ~30 min. Roll other disk into 12" circle, then transfer to parchment paper lined baking sheet; cover with plastic and refrigerate for 30 min. Adjust rack to middle position and heat oven to 425F. Transfer filling to chilled pie crust and spread into even layer. Loosley roll remaining dough around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto filling. Trim overhand 1/2" beyond lib. Pinch edges of top and bottom firmly together. Tuck overhang under itself; folded edge should be flush with tin. Crimp dough evenly around edge of plate using fingers or butter knife. Brush surface thoroughly with water and sprinkle with 3 tbsp sugar. Cut 8 2" slits in top crust. Place on parchment lined baking sheet and bake until crust is set and begins to brown ~25 min. Rotate pie and reduce temp to 375F; continue to bake until crust is deep golden brown and filling is bubbling, 30-40 min longer. Let cool on rack for 2 1/2 hrs before serving.


Notes: crust dough is very moist, can take up to 1/4c flour to roll out
