Double Crust Summer Berry Pie

Crust:
2 chilled pie dough discs, rolled into 13" diameter

Make a foil ring cover by tearing a 12" piece of foil and using a pair of scissors to cut the center into a cirlce. Bend the foil and round the edges to create a 2" wide ring, and set aside. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and transfer 1 rolled out pie dough round on top. Freeze until very firm, 20-30 min. Starting in the center use a 1" round cutter to punch out ~7 coin size circles, spacing them 2" from the edge. Cover the dough with a damp kitchen towel and chill in the fridge for 15-20 min. Meanwhile, fit the second dough round into a 9" pie plate and use a pair of scissors to trim the edges, to have an even 3/4" overhang from the top of the pie plate. Transfer to the fridge to chill. 

Filling:
6 c (~2 1/4lbs) mixed berries and stone fruit pieces (ex. blackberries, blueberris, plums, and peaches)
1 c peeled and shredded green apple (1/2 apple)
1/2 c sugar
2 tsp finely grated lemon zest (1 lemon)
pinch kosher salt
2 tbsp + 1 tsp tapioca starch

In a large bowl, combine the fruit, sugar, zest, lemon juice, and salt. Set asode and let macerate until you have ~3/4 c of juice and 5 c of fruit, 45 min. Strain the macerating fruit liquid into a small saucepan and gently boil over medium high heat until it's reduced to a syrup, 5-7 min. Combine with the macerated fruit and tapioca starch. Pour the filling into the chilled pie dough. 

Assembly:
2 tbsp whole milk, for brushing
1-2 tsp sugar, for dusting

Carefully lay the punched out piece of pie dough on top and pich the 2 crusts together to create a seal. Use a pair of kitch scissors to trim an even 3/4" overhang, measuring from the top of the pan. Roll the overhang under itself to create a cylinder wall and crimp. Freeze until firm, 30-40 min. Preheat oven to 425F. Remove the pie from the freezer and set onto a rimmed baking sheet. Brush the pie with milk and sprinkle sugar over the top. Transfer the pie to the oven, reduce the temp to 375F and bake until the crimped edges begin to brown, 20-30 min. Remove the pie and cover the edges with the prepped foil ring. Return to the oven and bake until the top turns golden brown, another 20-30 min. Most of the top crust with be golden, but the thick crust edges might not be fully cooked underneath. Remove the pie from the oven, remove the ring, and cover the entire pie with foil. Bake until the juices are bubbling and crackling and the crust is dry, another 20-45 min. Remove the foil and let the pie rest on a wire rack until completely cool, 3-4 hrs.
