Sweet Potato Pi with Pecan Crust

Crust:
3 1/2 oz pecan halves
6 oz (1 1/4 c) ap flour, chilled in freezer
1 tsp ginger
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp cinnamon
8 tbsp (1 stick) unsalted butter, very cold
2 oz ice water

Place the pecans in a food processor and pulverize until finely ground. Ad the flour, ginger, salt, and cinnamon and pulse to combine. Transfer to a mixing bowl. Cut the butter into 14" cubes and chill in the freezer for 5 min. Add the chilled butter into the flour mixture and cut the butter into the flour until the mixture is mealy with pea size pieces of butter. Add the ice water and mix using a rubber spatula until a loose dough forms. If the dough seems too dry, add a little more ice water. For the dough into a disc, wrap in plastic and chill in the fridge for at least and hour or overnight.

Filling:
4 small sweet potatoes (~2lbs)
2 tbsp melted unsalted butter
3 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1 c sugar
1/2 tsp grated ginger
1/2 tsp cinnamon
1/2 tsp ground clove
1/4 tsp freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 tsp salt
1 tsp vanilla extract
1 1/4 c whole milk
2 tbsp boubon

Preheat oven to 350F. Place the sweet potatoes on a parchment lined sheet tray and roast until tender, about 1 hr. Remove from the oven; let cool. Peel and scrape out the flesh, discarding the skin. Yields ~ 2 c of cooked sweet potatoes. Transfer the sweet potatoes, along with the remaining ingredients, into the bowl of a food processor and puree until smooth; set aside.
Remove the dough from the refrigerator and transfer to a floured work surface. Using a rolling pin, roll out the dough to 1/8" thick. Transfer the dough to a 9" nonstick pie pan and trim the excess dough around the edge of the pan; crimp edges of the crust decoratively. Dock the crust and chill in the fridge for 20 min. Remove the dough and blind bake until light golden brown, ~8min; let cool. Pour the sweet potato mixture into the shell and bake until the filling is just set, ~45 min. Transfer to a wire rack and let coor about 2hrs before serving.
