Sweet Cherry Pie
  --America's Test Kitchen

Crust:
2 1/2 c ap flour + more for dusting
1 tsp salt
2 tbsp sugar 
12 tbsp cold unsalted butter cut into 1/4" pieces
1/2 c cold vegetable shortening, cut into 4 pieces
1/4 c vodka
1/4 c cold water

Process 1 1/2 c flour, salt, and sugar in food processor until combined, ~2 1 s pulses. Add butter and shortening; process until homogeneous dough just starts to collect in uneven clumps,~15 s. (dough will resemble cottage cheese curds and there should be no uncoated flour). Scrape bowl with rubber spatula and redistribute dough evenly around processor blade. Add remaining 1 c flour and pulse until mixture is evenly distributed around bowl and mass of dough has been broken up, 4-6 quick pulses. Empty mixture into medium bowl. Sprinkle vodka and water over mixture. With rubber spatula, use folding motion to mix, pressing down on dough until dough is slightly tacky and sticks together. Divide dough into 2 equal balls and flatten each into 4" disk. Cover each with plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 45 min or up to 2 days. Remove 1 disk dough from refrigerator and roll out on generously floured work surface into a 12" circle ~1/8" thick. Roll dough loosely around rolling pin and unroll into pie plate, leaving at least 1" overhang . Ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with 1 hand while pressing into plate bottom with other hand. Refrigerate until dough is firm, ~40 min.

Filling:
2 red plums, halved and pitted
6 c (~2 lbs) pitted sweet cherries or 6 c pitted frozen cherries, halved 
1/2 c sugar (3 1/2 oz)
1/8 tsp salt
1 tbsp lemon juice
2 tbsp instant tapioca, ground
2 tsp bourbon (optional)
1/8 tsp cinnamon (optional)
2 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into 1/4" pieces
1 large egg, beaten with 1 tsp water

Adjust oven rack to lowest position, place baking sheet on oven rack, and heat oven to 400 F. Process plums and 1 c halved cherries in food processor until smooth, ~1 min, scraping down sides of bowl as necessary. Strain puree through fine-mesh strainer into large bowl, pressing on solids to extract liquid; discard solids. Stir remaining halved cherries, sugar, salt, lemon juice, bourbon (if using), tapioca, and cinnamon (if using) into puree; let stand for 15 min. Transfer cherry mixture to dough lined pie tin. Scatter butter pieces over fruit. Roll second disk of dough on generously floured work surface to 11" circle ~1/8" thickRoll dough loosely around rolling pin and unroll over pie, leaving at least 1/2" overhang. Flute edges or use tines of fork to seal. Brush top and edges with egg mixture. With sharp knife, make 8 evenly spaced 1" long vents in crust. Freeze pie 20 min.  Place pie on preheated baking sheet and bake 30 min. Reduce oven temp 350F and continue to bake until juices bubble around the edges and crust is deep golden brown, 30-40 min longer. Transfer pie to wire rack; let cool to room temperature so juices have time to thicken, 2-3 hr. Cut into wedges and serve.


Notes:  The tapioca should be measured first, then ground in a coffee grinder or food processor for 30 s. If you are using frozen cherries, can be measured frozen, but thaw before using. 
