vegan pumpkin pie

crust:

1 cup GF certified rolled oats, processed into a fine flour OR 1 cup GF oat flour
2 cups raw pecans
2 tbsp sugar
3 tbsp ground flax
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/4 cup brown rice syrup (acts as the binder, honey may work if you prefer that)
1 tbsp Earth Balance, melted

Grease a 9-inch pie dish very well and preheat the oven to 350F. In a blender, process your oats into a very fine flour. If you don’t think your machine can get the oats fine enough, then I suggest buying oat flour from Bulk Barn or other store. The oat flour needs to be very fine in this crust, not flaky or chunky.
In a food processor, add 2 cups pecans and process until it starts to clump and oils start to release (about 35 secs), but don’t make pecan butter either. You should be able to make a ball with the pecan dough
Melt earth balance with brown rice syrup for about 30 secs in microwave. Stir. Transfer clumpy pecan mixture into a large bowl and mix with the rest of the ingredients. Using your hands, squeeze the dough over and over to combine very well. You should be able to form a ball with it. If it's too dry add a bit more oil.
Spoon the pecan dough onto pie dish and smooth out evenly. Press down firmly with fingers to form a crust, bringing it up along the sides. Press as firmly as you can. Prick base with fork 12-13 times. Prebake at 350F for 9-12 minutes, watching closely so it doesn't burn. Remove and cool for 10 mins.


filling:

3/4 pound silken (soft) tofu
1 16 ounce can pumpkin puree
1 1/2 tsp cinnamon
3/4 tsp ginger
1/2 tsp nutmeg
1/2 tsp salt
1/3 cup oil
1 tsp vanilla
1 cup brown sugar
1 1/2 tbsp molasses

Combine all ingredients, except for pie crust, in a food process or blender and process until smooth. 

Notes: 
Press/drain tofu before using (also use firm)
add clove, more nutmeg, less ginger

Scoop the filling into crust and smooth. Cover crust with crust shield (or tin foil). Bake for 50-55 minutes at 350F. Place on cooling rack for 1 hour. Transfer to fridge to set for a minimum of 3 hours or overnight. (this step is very important!) Do not slice pie until it has set in the fridge for 3 hours minimum.
Slice with a very sharp knife, very slowly and carefully for best results. A bit of crumbling may occur, but that’s ok because it’s rustic and made from scratch!
