Vegetable Pot Pie
  --America's Test Kitchen

1 single-crust pie dough
4 tbsp unsalted butter
1 onion, chopped fine
8 oz cremini mushrooms, trimmed and quartered if large or halved if small
salt and pepper
1 sweet potato (12 oz), peeled and cut into 1/2" pieces
8 oz turnips, peeled and cut into 1/2" pieces
3 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 tsp grated lemon zest + 1 tbsp juice
8 oz Swiss chard, stemmed and cut into 1" pieces
2 tbsp ap flour
2 c vegetable broth
1 oz Parmesan cheese, grated (1/2 c)
2 tbsp minced fresh parsley
1 large egg
1 tsp water

Roll dough between 2 large sheets parchment paper into 10" circle. Remove parchment on top of dough. Fold over outer 1/2" edge of dough, then crimp into tidy fluted edge using fingers. Using paring knife, cut four 2", oval-shaped vents in center. Slide parchment paper with crust onto baking sheet and refrigerate until needed. Meanwhile, adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 400 degrees. Melt 2 tbsp butter in Dutch oven over medium heat. Stir in onion, mushrooms, and 1/2 tsp salt and cook until mushrooms have released their liquid, ~5 min. Stir in sweet potato and turnips. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and cook, stirring occasionally, until potato and turnips begin to soften around edges, 7-9 min. Stir in garlic and lemon zest and cook until fragrant, ~30 s. Stir in chard and cook until wilted, ~2 min; transfer to bowl. Melt remaining 2 tbsp butter in now-empty pot over medium-high heat. Stir in flour and cook for 1 min. Gradually whisk in broth, scraping up any fond and smoothing out any lumps. Bring to simmer and cook until sauce thickens slightly, ~1 min. Off heat, whisk in Parmesan, parsley, lemon juice, and 1/2 tsp salt. Stir in cooked vegetables, along with any accumulated juices, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Transfer filling to 9 1/2" deep-dish pie plate set on aluminum foil–lined rimmed baking sheet. Place chilled crust on top. Lightly beat egg, water, and pinch salt together in bowl, then brush over crust. Bake until crust is golden brown and filling is bubbling, ~30 min. Let cool for 10 min before serving.

