Apple Pie Bars
(Ina Garten)

Crust:
1 lb (4 sticks) unsalted butter at room temp
3/4 c granulated sugar
1/2 c light brown sugar, lightly packed
2 tsp vanilla
4 c ap flour
1 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1/2 c chopped walnuts
1 tsp cinnamon

Preheat oven to 375F. Place the butter, sugars, and vanilla in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and beat on medium for 2 min, until light and creamy. Sift the flour and salt together and, with the mixer on low, slowly add to the butter mixture, beating until combined. Scatter 2/3 of the dough in clumps in a 9x13" baking pan and press it lightly with floured hands on the bottom and 1/2" up the sides. Refrigerated for 20 min. Bake for 18-20 min, until the crust is golden brown, and set aside to cool. Put the mixing bowl with the remaining dough back on the mixer, add the walnuts and cinnamon, and mix on low to combine. Set aside.

Filling:
1 1/2 lbs granny smith apples, peeled, quartered, cored, and sliced 1/8" thick (3 large)
1 1/2 lbs golden delicious apples, peeled, quartered, cored, and sliced 1/8" thick (3 large)
2 tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/4 c granulated sugar
1 tsp cinnamon
1/8 tsp nutmeg
4 tbsp (1/2 stick) unsalted butter

Reduce the oven to 350F. Combine the apples and lemon juice in a very large bowl. Add the sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg and mix well. Melt the butter in a large (10" diameter) pot, add the apples, and simmer over medium to medium low heat, stirring often, for 12-15 min, until the apples are tender and the liquid has mostly evaporated. Spread the apples evenly over the crust, leaving a 1/2" border. Pinch medium pieces of the remaining dough with your fingers and drop them evenly on top of the apples. Bake for 25-30 min, until the topping is browned. Cool completely and cut into bars.


Variant
  --Sur la Table

Crust:
1 1/4 (6 1/4 oz) cups ap flour
2 tbsp sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt
1 stick (4 oz) unsalted butter, cold, cut into 1/2" cubes
1/4 - 1/3 c ice water

Place flour, sugar, and salt in a food processor or large mixing bowl.  By pulsing or using a pastry blender, cut the butter into the flour until the butter is the size of peas. Sprinkle ice water, a tbsp at a time, over the flour mixture. Pulse or stir mixture until large clumps form.  When enough water has been added to allow the dough to hold together, transfer to a lightly floured work surface. Press the pieces of dough together to form a ball. Flatten the dough into a disk ~6" wide, cover in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 min before rolling.


3 recipes Perfect Pie Crust, chilled or thawed

Remove the dough from the refrigerator ~15 min before you are ready to roll it to allow it to soften slightly. Generously flour a large work surface. Shape each piece of dough into a rectangle. Sandwich 2 of the dough squares together. Dust the top of the dough with flour. Using a rolling pin, roll chilled dough into a large rectangle, turning and flipping the dough as needed with a bench scraper to prevent sticking, until the rectangle measures 12x17" long and 1/8" thick. Starting at one edge, roll the dough around the rolling pin and lay it gently onto the rimmed baking sheet. Gently press the dough into the bottom and sides of the pan. Trim the excess dough away from the pan and reserve, leaving 1" overhanging on the sides. Transfer shell and dough scraps to refrigerator to chill. Repeat the same rolling procedure with remaining piece of dough creating a second 12x17" rectangle. Gently, fold this piece of dough in half, transfer to a parchment-lined baking sheet and chill while assembling the rest of the ingredients.

Filling:
2 pounds (about 6) granny smith or slightly tart apples, peeled and thinly sliced
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup light brown sugar
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 cup of water

To a large saucepan or braiser set over medium heat add all filling ingredients and coook, stirring frequently, until apples have softened and juices are thick, about 6 to 8 minutes. Remove from heat, transfer filling into a large, shallow baking dish or bowl and chill for 10 min before proceeding. Transfer dough scraps and remaining rolled out dough to a lightly floured surface. Using a fluted pastry cutter, slice the rectangle into strips lengthwise, and then cut half of the strips in half to create the right size strips for the rectangular pie. Fill the sheet pan pastry shell with the cooled apple filling and weave lattice over the top. Once lattice is completed, fold the edges of the crust up over the edges of the lattice and pinch to create a decorative border.  Brush the top of the pie with the beaten egg, and bake for 35 minutes, or until filling is bubbly and top is golden brown. Transfer to a wire rack, sprinkle with almonds, and cool. Serve warm or at room temperature with vanilla ice cream.

Assembly:
1 egg, beaten
1/4 cup toasted sliced almonds

Preheat oven to 400F, with rack positioned in the middle. 
