Cranberry Gingerbread Crumble Bars
  --Asha Loupy

Crust & crumble:
8 oz (2 sticks), plus 2 tablespoons, unsalted butter
1 1/2 c rolled oats
1 3/4 c ap flour
1/2 c light or dark brown sugar, lightly packed
1/2 c sugar
2 tp ground cinnamon
1 1/2 tsp ginger
1 tsp ground green cardamom
1/2 tsp freshly nutmeg
1/4 tsp ground cloves
1 tsp baking powder
1 tsp kosher salt
3 tbsp molasses
2/3 cup raw, pecan halves, finely chopped

Preheat the oven to 350F. Line a rimmed 1/4-sheet pan or 9x13 pan with parchment paper and set aside. Melt the butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Cook the butter, stirring often, until it foams and then browns, ~4-6 min. Transfer to a large mixing bowl, reserving 2 tbsp in a separate small bowl and set aside. Combine the rolled oats, flour, white and brown sugars, cinnamon, ginger, cardamom, nutmeg, cloves, baking powder and salt in a food processor and pulse until the oats are slightly broken down and the dry ingredients are the texture of very coarse sand, ~10-15 pulses. Add the molasses to the large mixing bowl with the brown butter, and whisk to combine. Add the oat mixture and gently stir until a sandy, crumble forms. Transfer 3/4 of the oat crumble mixture to the parchment-lined baking pan, spreading it out into an even layer and gently pressing it down to form a crust. Refrigerate for 20 min. For the crumble, add the reserved 2 tbsp of browned butter and chopped pecans to the remaining oat mixture. Stir to combine and set aside. Remove the crust from the refrigerator and bake until very lightly golden, ~10 min.

Filling:
2x 12 oz bags whole, fresh cranberries (if using frozen, do not thaw)
3/4 c sugar
zest of 1 orange (~1-2 tsp)
juice of 1 orange (~1/2 c)
1 tsp vanilla 
pinch of salt
1 tbsp cornstarch

Add 3/4 of the cranberries to a medium saucepan along with the white granulated sugar, orange zest, orange juice, vanilla extract, and salt. Place over medium heat and cook, stirring occasionally, until the cranberries start to pop and the mixture becomes jammy, ~7-10 min. Add the cornstarch, stirring vigorously to make sure there are no cornstarch clumps, and cook until the cranberry mixture thickens, ~1 min. Remove from the heat, stir in the remaining fresh cranberries, and set aside. Spoon the cranberry filling onto the crust, gently spreading the fruit into an even layer. Top with the reserved oat and nut crumble mixture. If you want larger crumbles, squeeze the mixture together in your hands before sprinkling it over. Bake the bars until the fruit is bubbling and jammy and the crumble is deeply golden brown, ~38-42 min. Remove from the oven and cool to room temperature. Refrigerate any leftover bars (the fresh fruit has a lot of moisture and no one wants moldy crumble bars!) and enjoy within 4-5 days.

