Nanaimo Bars
  --Cook's country

Crust:
1/2 c (3 oz) bittersweet chocolate chips
6 whole graham crackers, broken into 1" pieces
2/3 c (2 oz) sweetened shredded coconut
1/2 c toasted pecans

Make foil sling for 8" square baking pan, smoothing foil flush with sides and corners of pan. Spray with oil spray. Microwave chocolate chips in a bowl at 50% power, until melted, 1-2 min, stirring occasionally. Process cracker pieces, coconut, pegans, cocoa, and salt in food processor until cracker pieces are finely ground, ~30 s. Add corn syrup and melted chocolate and pulse until combined, 8-10 pulses. Mixture should hold together when pinched with your fingers. Transfer to prepared pan. Using bottom of greased measuring cup, press crumbs into bottom of pan. Refrigerate while making the filling.

Filling:
1 1/4 c (5 oz) confectioners' sugar
8 tbsp unsalted butter, softened
1/4 c nonfat dry milk powder
1/8 tsp salt
1/4 c heavy cream
2 tsp vanilla 

In clean, dry food processor, process sugar, butter, milk powder, and salt until smooth, ~30 s, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Add cream and vanilla and process until fully combined, ~15 s. Spread filling evenly over crust. Cover pan with plastic wrap and refrigerate until filling is set and firm ~2 hrs.

Topping:
2/3 c (4 oz) bittersweet chocolate chips
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp light corn syrup

Microwave chocolate chips, butter, and corn syrup in bowl at 50% power until chocolate chips and butter are melted and mixture is smooth, 1-2 min, stirring occasionally. Using offset spatula, spread chocolate mixture evenly over set filling. Refrigerate until topping is set, ~30 min. Using sling, lift bars out ofpan and transfer to cutting board; discard foil. Using chef's knife, trim outer 1/4" of square to make neat edges; wipe knife clean after each cut. Cut square in thirds to creat 3 rectangles. Cut each rectangle crosswise into 6 equal pieces. Let sit at room temp for 20 min before serving. Can be refrigerated for up to 2 days. Makes 18 bars.
