Strawberry Brownies
  --Adrianna Adarme

Brownies:
1 1/3 (287g) cup granulated sugar
1 (24g) c freeze-dried strawberries, divided
3/4 c unsalted butter, softened
1 tsp pure vanilla extract
1 tbsp fresh lemon juice, from about 1 lemon
2 large eggs
1 drop red food coloring, (optional)
1 1/4 (162g) cup ap flour
3/4 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp kosher salt
3/4 (108g) c medium diced fresh strawberries

Preheat the oven to 350F. Grease and line an 8x8" pan and place a piece of parchment that spans just the center length with the ends of the parchment hanging over the edge of the pan. Press the parchment flat so it adheres to the bottom and sides of the pan. In a small food processor or blender, add the freeze-dried strawberries. Pulse until you have strawberry powder. Remove 2 tsp, keep it in an airtight container (we will use this later for the glaze and we don’t want it to clump up). Then add the sugar to the rest of the strawberry powder and briefly pulse until combined – it should look like pink sugar. Add the strawberry sugar, to a bowl, along with the unsalted butter and vanilla extract. Using a hand mixer on medium speed, beat the butter and sugar together until fluffy, ~1 min. Then add lemon juice and eggs. Quickly beat together on medium speed until combined and smooth. If you want it to be a super bright pink, add a small drop of food coloring into the mix. This is of course optional! Now, add your dry ingredients: flour, baking powder, salt. Beat on low speed until just combined. Then gently fold in the fresh strawberries. Scoop the batter into the prepared baking dish. Bake the strawberry brownies for 35-37 min until golden and crackly on top. Let cool for at least 30 min before removing it from the baking pan and adding the glaze. The center will be puffed up but as it cools it will fall slightly and set. 

Glaze:
3/4 (113g) c white chocolate, roughly chopped
2 tbsp fresh lemon juice, from ~1 lemon
pinch kosher salt
2 tsp freeze-dried strawberry powder (part of the c from brownies)

Add the white chocolate and lemon juice to a bowl. Microwave in intervals of 20 seconds, until the white chocolate has completely melted. (If you don’t have a microwave, use a double boiler.) Stir until combined and glossy. Then sift in the reserved two teaspoons of strawberry powder and pinch of salt, stir to combine. Pour the white chocolate strawberry glaze over the strawberry brownies and move the pan around to encourage the glaze to cover the entire surface of the brownies. Allow the glaze to set for at least 20 min before slicing. To store, keep in an airtight container for up to three days at room temperature.


Notes: might need to bake longer 
