Triple Citrus Bars
  -- America's Test Kitchen

Crust:
5 oz animal crackers
3 tbsp packed brown sugar (light or dark)
pinch salt
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 325F. Make a sling with foil for 8x8" pan, spraying with nonstick cooking spray. In workbowl of food processor, pulse animal crackers until broken down, ~10 1 s pulses, process crumbs until evenly fine, ~10 s (should have ~ 1 1/4 c crumbs). Add brown sugar and salt, process to combine, 10-12 1 s pulses (if large sugar lumps remain, break apart with fingers). Drizzle butter over crumbs and pulse until crumbs are evenly moistened with butter, ~10 1 s pulses. Press crumbs evenly and firmly into bottom of prepared pan. Bake until deep golden brown, 18-20 min. Cool on wire rack while making filling.

Filling:
2 oz cream cheese, room temp
1 1/2 tsp grated lime zest, minced
1 1/2 tsp grated lemon zest, minced
1 1/2 tsp grated orange zest, minced
pinch salt
14 oz can sweetened condensed milk
1 egg yolk
6 tbsp fresh lime juice
1 tbsp fresh lemon juice
1 tbsp fresh orange juice

In medium bowl, stir cream cheese, zests, and salt with rubber spatula until softened, creamy, and thoroughly combined. Add sweetened condensed milk and whisk vigorously until incorporated and no lumps remain; whisk in yolk. Add juices and whisk gently until incorporated (mixture will thicken slightly). Pour filling into crust; spread to corners and mooth surface with rubber spatula. Bake until set and edges begin to pull away slightly from sides, 15-20 min. Cool on wire rack to room temp, 1-1 1/2 hrs. Cover will foil and refrigerate until thoroughly chilled, at least 2 hrs.

Garnish (optional)
3/4 c sweetened shredded coconut, toasted until golden and crisp

Loosen edges with paring knife and lift from baking pan using sling; cut bars into 16 quares. Sprinkle with toasted coconut (if using) and serve. Can be refrigerated up to 2 days.


Notes: Can double recipe and use 9x13" pan, will need to increase baking times by 1-2 min. 
