Coconut Layer Cake
  --America's Test Kitchen

Cake:
2 1/2 c (9 oz) cake flour + extra to dust pans
3/4 c cream of coconut
5 large egg whites + 1 egg at room temp
1/4 c water
1 tsp coconut extract
1 tsp vanilla extract
1 c (7 oz) granunlated sugar
1 tbsp baking [pweder
3/4 tsp salt
12 tbsp (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 12 pieces, and softened

Adjust oven racks to middle position and heat to 325F. Grease and flour 2x9" round cake pans, then line the bottoms with parchment paper. Whisk the cream of coconut, egg whites, egg, water, and extracts together in a medium bowl. In a stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment, mix the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt on low speed until combined, ~30 z. Increase the speed to medium and beat the butter into the flour mixture, one piece at a time, ~30 s. Continue to beat the mixture until it resembles moist crumbs, ~1 min. Beat in all but 1/2 c of the egg mixture, then increase the speed to medium and beat the batter until smooth, light, and fluffy, ~1 min. Reduce the speed to low and slowly beat in the remaining egg mixture until the batter is combined, ~30 s. Scrape the batter into the prepared pans, smoothe tops, and lightly tap the pans against the countertop 2-3 times to settle the batter. bake the cakes until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out with a few crumbs attached, 30-35 min, rotating the pans halfway through. Cool the cakesin the pans for 10 min. Run a small knife around the edge of the cakes, then flip them out onto a wire rack. Peel off the parchment, flip the cakes right side up, and cool completely before frosting, ~2 hrs.

Frosting:
2 tbsp heavy cream
1 tsp coconut extract
1 tsp vanilla extract
pinch salt
16 tbsp (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into chunks and softened
1/4 c cream of coconut
3 c (12 oz) confectioners' sugar
2 c sweetened shredded coconut

In a small bowl, stir the cream, extracts, and salt together. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter and cream of coconut together on medium high speed until smooth, ~20 s. Reduce the mixer speed to medium low and gradually beat in the sugar, then continue to beat until smooth, ~2 min. Beat in the cream mixture. Increase the speed to medium high and beat until the mixture is light and fluffy, ~4 min. Line the edges of a cake platter with strips of parchment paper to keep the platter clean. Place one layer on the platter. Spread 1 c of the frosting over the cake, right to the edges. Place the other layer on top and press lightly to adhere. Frost the cake with the remaining frosting. Press the coconut into the sides of the cake and sprinkle it over the top. Remove the parchment from the platter before serving.



Notes: can toast the shredded coconut (350F, stirring often for ~10 min)
