Blackout Cake
  --Rick Martinez

Cake:
unsalted butter room temp for pans
3/4 c dutch process cocoa + more for pans
1 1/2 c ap flour
1 1/2 tsp baking soda
3/4 tsp baking powder
1 large egg + 1 yolk, room temp
1 1/2 c packed dark brown sugar
3/4 c sour cream, room temp
5 tbsp vegetable oil
2 tsp vanilla
3/4 tsp kosher salt
3/4 c hot water

Place oven rack in center; preheat to 350F. Butter 2 8x2" round cake pans, then dust with cocoa powder, tapping out excess. Sift flour, baking soda, baking powder, and cocoa powder into a medium bowl, then whisk to combine. Whisk egg, yolk, brown sugar, sour cream, oil, vanilla, salt, and 3/4 c hot water in a large bowl until smooth. Whisk in dry ingredients until just combined. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, 25-35 min. Transfer pans to a wire rack; let cool completely. Invert onto a plate, then invert again. Cake can be made up to 2 days ahead, store tightly wrapped at room temp.

Pudding:
1/3 c dutch process cocoa 
5 tbsp cornstarch
1 1/4 c heavy cream
4 large yolks, beaten
1 1/4 c whole milk
2/3 packed dark brown sugar
1/4 tsp kosher salt
4 oz milk chocolate, chopped
1 tsp vanilla

Whisk cocoa and cornstarch in a large saucepan. Whisk in cream until smooth and no lumps remain. Add yolks, milk, brown sugar, and salt; whisk to combine. Bring to a boil over medium high heat, whisking occasionally, then reduce heat to low. Continue to cook, whisking, until thick and smooth, 1-2 min. Remove from heat and add chocoalte and vanilla, stirring until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Strain through fine mesh sieve (optional) into medium bowl. Cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly onto surface of hot pudding; chill until cold at least 2 hrs. Pudding can be made 1 day ahead; keep chilled.
Using a serrated knife and sawing in long, even strokes, carefully halve cakes. Set aside 3 prettiest layers, crumble remaining layer into fine crumbs. Place 1 layer cut side up on a platter or cake stand. Remove plastic from pudding and vigorously whisk until smooth. Using a rubber spatula, spread half of the pudding over cake layer on stand, spreading to edges. Top with another cake layer, cut side down, and spread remaining pudding over cake. Top with third cake layer cut side down. Chill cake at least 1 hr, up to 8, to let pudding firm up. 

Frosting:
1 c heavy cream
3 tbsp golden syrup
1/8 tsp kosher salt
12 oz bittersweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 c sour cream, room temp
2 tbsp unsalted butter, room temp

Bring cream, syrup, and salt to a boil in a large saucepan over medium high heat. Remove from heat and stir in chocolate, sour cream, and butter. Let sit, stirring occasionally, until chocolate and butter are melted and mixture is smooth and no streaks of white remain. Transfer to medium bowl. Let frosting sit at room temp, stirring every 30 min or so, until thickend and spreadable. Stir until smooth. If your kitchen is warmer than 72F, chill for 5 min, stir to combine cooler outer edges with warmer center, then chill another 5. It should be the consistency of sour cream, if not, chill another 5 min and stir. Spread frosting all over top and sides of chilled cake. The frosting on top should be smooth and level, the sides can be messy. Place cake stand on a sheet tray. Take a handful of crumbs and press into sides of cake. Repeat, turning cake as you go, to completely cover sides in crumbs. 

Cake can be assembled 1 day ahead. Chill uncovered.
