Carrot Cake with Browned Butter Cream Cheese Frosting
  --Polina Chesnakova

Cake:
2 2/3 c (345 g) ap flour + more for dusting
1 c + 2 tbsp (225 g) firmly packed light brown sugar
1 c (200 g)  sugar
2 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1 1/2 tsp cinnamon
1 tsp ginger
1 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp lightly packed freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 tsp ground cardamom, cloves, or allspice
4 eggs, at room temperature
1 1/2 c (315 ml) neutral oil, such as canola or safflower
1/2 c (120 ml) buttermilk or plain whole-milk yogurt, at room temperature
1 tbsp vanilla 
1 lb (445 g) coarsely grated carrots (~3 c)
1 1/3 c (150 g) toasted walnuts or pecans, chopped + more for garnish
1 c (150 g) golden raisins, tart cherries, chopped dates, or apricots (optional)
Flaked coconut, for garnish

Preheat the oven to 350F. Grease two deep 8" or 9" round cake pans and dust the insides lightly with flour. In a large bowl, whisk together flour, both sugars, salt, baking powder, cinnamon, ginger, baking soda, nutmeg, and cardamom. Add eggs, oil, buttermilk, and vanilla and whisk until just combined and smooth. Use a silicone spatula to fold in carrots, walnuts, and raisins. Divide batter evenly between prepared pans and bake, rotating and switching their positions halfway through, until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40-50 min for 8" pans or 35-45 min for 9" pans. Transfer the pans to a wire rack and allow cakes to cool completely before assembling.


Frosting:
1 c (225 g) unsalted butter
16 oz (445 g) full-fat cream cheese, at room temperature
2 tbsp heavy cream or milk
1 1/2 tsp vanilla 
1/2 tsp apple cider vinegar

Melt the butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. It will foam and start to vigorously bubble. Continue cooking at a low simmer, swirling occasionally, until bubbling subsides and the butter begins to brown and smell nutty. Remove from heat and allow the butter to keep browning in the pan—the aim is a golden caramel color. Transfer the butter to a shallow bowl and refrigerate until solid. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat the solidified butter on medium speed until light and fluffy, ~2 min. Scrape down the bottom and sides of the bowl, then add cream cheese, heavy cream, vanilla, vinegar, and salt. Sift in the powdered sugar. Gradually increasing the speed to medium, beat for ~1 min or until combined. Season with more salt to taste. The frosting can be used immediately or refrigerated for up to 2 weeks—let it cool for 20 min before using.

Place one of the layers (top side up) on a cake stand or plate. Tuck strips of parchment paper under the edge of the cake to keep the plate clean. Top with ~1 c of frosting and use an offset spatula to spread into an even layer. Center the second cake layer (top side down) over the frosted layer and nestle it on top. Using as little frosting as possible, spread a very thin crumb coat over the top and sides of the cake and fill any gaps. If possible, refrigerate the cake for 20 min to set it. Spread remaining frosting evenly over the top and sides of the cake. If desired, garnish with nuts or shredded or flaked coconut, depending on the filling.




