Cheesy Corn Mochi Cake
  --Sohla El-Waylly

1/4 c (57 g) unsalted butter, melted and cooled + more for the pan
1 c (80 g) finely grated Pecorino
1 tsp mild chile flakes, such as gochugaru or Aleppo
5-6 corn cobs, shucked and silk removed
3/4 c (170 g) sour cream
2 large eggs
1/2 c + 2 tbsp (124 g) granulated sugar
1 3/4 tsp kosher salt
2 c (254 g) glutinous sweet rice flour, preferably Koda Farms Blue Star Mochiko

Heat the oven to 350F. Brush an 8x8" brownie pan with butter. In a small bowl, toss together the Pecorino and chile flakes. Transfer 1/2 c of this mixture to a bowl and set aside for later. Coat the sides and bottom of the buttered pan with the remaining cheese mixture. Using a sharp knife, shave the corn kernels off the cobs. Measure out 2 c of corn. (If you have a little extra, add it to the batter as well. This cake is forgiving.) Use the back of the knife to scrape any corn milk left in the shaved cobs and add it to kernels. In a blender, puree 1 c of corn kernels with the sour cream and 1/4 c of the reserved cheese mixture until combined. In a medium bowl, whisk the eggs and melted butter until smooth and creamy. Add the sugar, salt, and corn puree and whisk until combined. Add the rice flour and whisk until combined. Add the reserved 1 c of corn kernels and, using a spatula, stir to combine. Scrape the batter into the prepared pan. Evenly sprinkle the remaining 1/4 c cheese mixture on top. Bake until deeply browned and the cake bounces back when gently pressed in the center, 55-65 min. Cool at least 15 min before inverting and serving. Store refrigerated in an airtight container for 3-4 days.



Notes: Add more sweet rice flour if you like it extra dense and chewy (up to 1/2 c), and more liquid (up to 1 c) if you want pudding vibes. Double the fat for a rich cake with a tender squish, or even omit it entirely if you like it drier. 


Variants:
Chocolate-Hazelnut Mochi Cake
Liquid: whole milk and heavy cream
Sweetener: honey
Fat: brown butter
Mix-ins: chopped dark chocolate, toasted salted hazelnuts, and vanilla extract
Line the pan with: butter and finely ground raw hazelnuts


Mochi Brownie
Liquid: whole milk and heavy cream
Sweetener: light brown sugar and golden syrup
Fat: salted butter
Swap: ⅓ cup sweet rice flour for ⅓ cup cocoa powder
Line the pan with: butter and cocoa

all-coconut extravaganza 
Liquid: coconut milk
Sweetener: coconut sugar
Fat: coconut oil
Lline the pan with: coconut flakes

