Chocolate Layer Cake

Cake:

Unsalted butter (for greasing)
3/4 c cocoa powder + some for dusting
3/4 c water
4 oz unsweetend chocolate, chopped or broken into 1" pieces
2 c. ap flour, divided
1 1/2 tsp baking soda
1/4 tsp kosher salt
12 tbsp (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
2 c granulated sugar
5 large eggs
1 c whole milk, divided

Preheat oven to 350F. Grease the bottoms and sides of 2 cake pans with butter and dust evenly with cocoa powder, tapping out the excess. 
In as small bowl, stir the cocoa powder with the water to make a paste; set aside.
In a small heatproof bowl set out a saucepan of simmering water (make sure bowl doesn't touch water) melt the chocolate. Using a rubber spatula, stir the chocolate until smooth and evenly melted, 2-3 min. Set aside and allow to cool to room temp.
Through a fine-mesh strainer over a large bowl, sift the flour and baking soda; add the salt.
In a stand mixer, beat the butter and sugar on medium speed until smooth. Scrape down the sides of the bowl using a spatula and stir in the eggs, 1 at a time, until combined. On low speed, add the reserved cocoa paste and melted chocolate and mix until well combined.
Still on low speed, add half of the sifted flour, then half the milk. Repeat with the remaining flour and then the milk, until combined.
Divide the batter evenly between the greased and coated pans. Using an offset (or rubber) spatula , spread out the batter. Bake the cakes on the middle rack of the oven until a toothpick inserted into the middle comes out clean, 30-35min. Run a paring knife around the inside edges to loosen the cake. Place a plate or sheet pan on top of each cake and invert the cake. Remove the pans and allow the cakes to cool completely.

Frosting:

10 oz bittersweet chocolate, roughly chopped
1 c heavy cream
2/3 c granluated sugar
12 tbsp (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softend and cut into 1" pieces

Place chopped chocolate in a medium bowl. 
In a small saoucepan over medium heat, warm the cream and sugar, stirring often until the sugar dissolves, 2-3 min.
Pour the warm cream over the chopped chocolate and let sit for 2-3 min or until the chocolate begins to soften. Whisk until smooth and allow to sit for another 5-7 min to cool slightly.
Whisk the butter into the chocolate, adding only 1 or 2 pieces at a time and whisking until they're blended in before adding the next.
Let the frosting sit at room temp until it seems spreadable, 20-30 min.


To assemble the cake, place one of the cake layers bottom side up on a cake plate or platter. Using an offset metal spatula, ice the about 1 c of the frosting. Place the second layer, also bottom side up, on top of the frosting. Spread the remaining frosting over the side and top of the cake. 
