Coconut Flour Cake    gf
  --Coconut Mama
  
5 large egg whites, at room temperature
3/4 c of coconut cream
1 large egg, at room temperature
1 tsp coconut extract
1 tsp vanilla
3/4 c + 2 tbsp coconut flour
1 1/2 c rapadura (can sub sucanat)
2 tbsp baking powder (or homemade grain free baking powder)
3/4 tsp sea salt
10 tbsp butter (1 1/4 stick) or coconut oil, cut into 10 pieces and softened
1/2 c shredded coconut

Preheat oven to 325F. Whisk egg whites, coconut cream, whole egg, and extracts together in a large bowl until combined; set aside. In a separate bowl mix coconut flour, rapadura (or other natural sugar), baking powder and salt together. Using an electric mixer, combing flour mixture with butter pieces or coconut oil, one tbsp at a time. Add 1 c of egg mixture, increase the speed to medium-high, and beat until light and semi fluffy. Add the remaining egg mixture in a steady stream and continue to beat until the batter is combined. Mix in shredded coconut. Pour batter into two 8" greased pans, a 9×13", or cupcakes (makes 12). Bake for 35 min or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcakes comes out with a few crumbs attached. The cake will be very golden brown. Let cool before frosting. 


Coconut Frosting (buttercream):
2 tbsp raw cream
pinch of salt
1 tsp coconut extract
1 tsp vanilla
2 sticks of butter, softened
1/4 c coconut cream (thick cream on top of canned coconut milk)
3 c powdered coconut sugar (can use a food processor to powder rapadura)

Stir the cream, extracts, and salt together until the salt dissolves. Beat in the butter and coconut cream in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until smooth. Reduce speed to low-medium, slowly add sugar and beat until smooth. Beat in cream mixture. Increase speed to medium-high and beat until the mixture is light and fluffy, 4-6 min.


Dairy-free Coconut Frosting:
1/2 c homemade coconut butter or coconut cream concentrate, room temp
1 tsp vanilla 
2 tbsp raw honey or maple syrup (add more if it’s not sweet enough for you)
Coconut cream or coconut milk

Use food processor to soften the coconut butter. Add vanilla and sweetener. Process until combined. Add some coconut cream or coconut milk to thin to desired consistency. Refrigerate until frosting is a little harder and spreadable.


