NY Crumb Cake
 --America's Test Kitchen

Topping:
1/3 c (2 2/3oz) sugar
1/3 c (2 2/3oz) dark brown sugar
3/4 tsp cinnamon
1/8 tsp salt
8 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and still warm
1 3/4 c (7 oz) cake flour

Whisk sugars, cinnamon, salt, and butter in medium bowl to combine. Add flour and stir with rubber spatula or wooden spoon until mixture resembles thick, cohesive dough; set aside to cool to room temp, 10-15 min.

Cake:
1 1/4 c (5oz) cake flour
1/2 c (3 1/2oz) sugar
1/4 tsp baking soda
1/4 tsp salt
6 tbsp (3/4 stick) unsalted butter cut into 6 pieces, softened but cool
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1 tsp vanilla
1/3 c buttermilk
confectioners' sugar for dusting

Adjust oven rack to upper middle position and preheat to 325F. Cut 16" length parchment paper or foil and fold lengthwise to 7" width. Spray 8" square baking dish with nonstick cooking spray and fit parchment into dish, pushing it into corners and up sides, allow excess to overhang edge of dish. Ibn bowl of stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment, mix flour, sugar, baking soda, and salt on low speed to combine. With mixer running at low speed, add butter one piece at a time; continue beating until mixture resembles moist crumbs, with no visible butter chunks remaining, 1-2 min. Add egg, yolk, vanilla, and buttermilk; beat on medium high speed until light and fluffy, ~1 min, scraping once if necessary. Transfer batter to baking pan; using rubber spatula, spread batter into even layer. Break apart crumb topping into large pea sized pieces and spread in even layer over batter, beginning with edges then working toward center. Bake until crumbs are golden and wooden skewer inserted into center of cake comes out clean, 35-40 min. Cool on wire rack at least 30 min. Remove cake from pan by lifting parchment overhand. Dust with confectioners' sugar just before serving.

Notes: Can sub plain lowfat yogurt for buttermilk. Do not push crumb topping into batter. Can double the recipe and use a 13x9" dish, increase baking time to ~45 min. Can store leftovers at room temp for 2 days.
