Easiest Chocolate Cake
  --Kat Boytsova

3/4 c vegetable oil + more for pan
1 1/3 c ap flour
1 1/4 c sugar
1 3/4 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp baking soda
1 1/4 tsp kosher salt
1/2 c unsweetened cocoa powder
2 large eggs
1 c milk
1  tsp vanilla

Place rack in center of oven; preheat to 325F. Grease bottom and sides of 9" round cake pan with oil. Line bottom with parchment paper, smoothing to eliminate bubbles. Oil top of parchment; set aside. Whisk flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Sift cocoa powder into bowl, then whisk to combine. Whisk eggs, oil, and vanilla in a medium bowl until well combined and creamy, ~30 s. Using a spatula, mix wet into dry until fully incorporated. It will be thick and pasty, that's ok. Warm milk in a small saucepan over medium heat until it comes to just a bare simmer, making sure not to let it boil. Whisk warmed milk into batter until lump free and just combined; do not overmix. Immediately transfer batter to prepared pan. Tap pan a few times on work surface to encourage some of the bubbles to escape. Bake cake, turning pan halfway through, until cake tester inserted into center comes out clean, 40-50 min. Transfer to wire rack and let cake cool in pan.

4 oz semisweet chocolate chips or coarsely chopped chocolate (do not exceed 64% cacao)
1/2 c heavy cream
3/4 tsp vanilla
1/4 tsp kosher salt
4 oz cream cheese, room temp
1/4 c powdered sugar

Fill a medium pot with 1" water and bring to bare simmer over medium heat. Combine chocolate and cream in heatproof medium bowl, place over saucepan, and reduce heat to low; make sure bottom of bowl is not touching water. Stir occasionally with a spatula until chocolate is melted and mixture is hompogeneous and thick. Chill ganache until cool to the touch, ~25 min. Alternatively, mix chocolate and cream in microwave safe bowl and microwave in 10 s increments until melted. Using an electric mixer on medium high speed, whisk cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and salt in large bowl until very smooth and no lumps remain. Beat in cooled ganache on medium speed, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until frosting just holds its peak and is well combined, ~1 min.

Run butter knife around edges of pan. Invert cooled cake onto a plate and peel off parchmnet; invert again onto a platter. Top cake with frosting, spreading evenly across the surface. Slice and serve.


Notes: can use Bob's Red Mill gf 1-1 flour to make it gluten-free, and non-dairy milks for the cake. 
