Guiness Chocolate Cupcakes with Irish Whiskey Frosting
  --Creative Culinary
  
Cake:
1 c Guinness stout beer
1 c unsalted butter
2 c granulated sugar
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tbsp dry espresso powder (optional)
2/3 c sour cream
2 large eggs, brought to room temperature
2 tbsp vanilla extract
2 c ap flour
2 1/2 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt

Preheat oven to 350F. Prepare cupcake tin with paper liners. In a medium saucepan on low heat, combine beer and butter; keep on low until butter dissolves. Once butter is melted, slowly whisk in sugar, cocoa and espresso until completely dissolved. Set mixture aside and cool for at least 5 min (room temp is fine, but no hotter). In the meantime, sift together flour, baking soda and salt in a small bowl, then set aside. Mix together sour cream, vanilla and eggs. Beat on low until combined, then slowly blend the chocolate into the sour cream and eggs, keeping mixer speed on low. Add flour, one cup at a time, and mix on medium speed until well blended; do not overmix. Pour cupcake mixture into the prepared cupcake liners about three-quarters full. Bake for 15-18 min  or until a toothpick inserted into the middle comes out clean. Cool cupcakes in the pan for about 10 min, then remove them to a wire rack to finish cooling. 

Drizzle:
6 oz Baileys Irish cream (regular or Salted Caramel flavor)
2 tbsp sugar

Combine the Baileys and sugar in a saucepan and cook on medium until the mixture reduces by half. Remove from heat and let cool completely before using.

Frosting:
3 sticks butter (24 oz)
3 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 tsp vanilla
4-5 tbsp Jameson Irish whiskey

Cream the softened butter in the bowl of a mixer. Gradually add the powdered sugar, and mix until well combined. Add the vanilla and mix thoroughly. Add the whiskey, 1 tablespoon at a time, and combine thoroughly. Spread on cupcakes with a knife or offset spatula, or pipe using a piping bag and tip.

Let the frosting set up a bit before topping with the Baileys drizzle.



