Pistachio Cherry Cake
  --Edd Kimber

Cake:
335g unsalted butter, room temperature
300g caster sugar
zest of 3 limes
6 large eggs
1 tsp vanilla  (or bean paste)
100g plain flour
200g pistachios*
100g ground almonds
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp fine sea salt

Preheat the oven to 180C (160C Fan) and lightly grease a deep 9x13 brownie tin and line the base with parchment paper. Place the pistachios into a food processor and pulse until finely ground, you’re looking for the same consistency as ground almonds. Add the flour and almonds and pulse to combine. Tip the nut mixture into a large bowl and whisk in the baking powder and salt. Place the butter, sugar and lime zest into the bowl of a stand mixer (you can also make this with an electric hand mixer) and, using the paddle attachment, cream together for ~5 min, on medium speed, until light and fluffy. Add the eggs one at a time, beating until fully combined before adding the next. Once the eggs are combined add the vanilla and mix to combine. Add the nut mixture and mix on low speed until combined. Scrape the mixture into the prepared tin and spread into an even layer. Bake the cake in the preheated oven for ~50-55 min or until the cake springs back to a light touch and is pulling away from the sides of the tin. Remove from the oven and set the tin on a wire rack to cool completely. 

Cherry Compote:
350g cherries, stoned and halved
50g caster sugar
juice of 1/2 lime
1/4 tsp almond extract (optional)

Mix together the cherries, sugar, lime zest and almond extract, if using, and set aside for the moment. The almond extract amplifies the cherry flavour but you can leave it out if you prefer. To finish the compote tip the cherry mixture into a small saucepan and cook over medium heat until the mixture comes to a boil. Continue cooking for a couple minutes before using a slotted spoon to transfer the cherries to a bowl, leaving the cooking juices in the pan. I cook the cherries for a couple minutes to soften them but remove them before they break down into mush. Continue cooking the juices until reduced and slightly syrupy. Scrape the syrup over the fruit and then transfer to the fridge to cool completely. 

Cream Cheese Frosting
75g unsalted butter, room temperature
125g full fat cream cheese, room temperature
400g icing sugar
1/4 tsp fine sea salt
2 tsp vanilla bean paste
2-3 tbsp finely chopped pistachios

Place the cream cheese and butter into the bowl of a stand mixer, fitted with the paddle attachment. Beat on medium/high speed until creamy and lump free. Slowly add in the icing sugar beating until light and fluffy. Add in the vanilla and salt and beat to combine. Spread the frosting over the cooled cake and top with the compote, sprinkling over a couple tablespoons of chopped pistachios. 

