Rainbow Cake
  --Sur la Table

butter for greasing cake pans, at room temperature
10 large eggs, separated
17 1/2 oz (2 1/2 c) granulated sugar, divided
12 2/3 oz cake flour (3 c), sifted
2 tbsp baking powder
1 tsp fine kosher salt
8 oz (1 c) luke warm water
8 oz (1 c) vegetable oil
2 tbsp vanilla extract
Scant 1/4 tsp each red, orange, yellow, green, blue and violet get food colorings

Preheat oven to 350F and place racks in upper and lower thirds. Butter, flour and line bottom of cake pans with parchment paper. You will need a minimum of 3x6" cake pans to make this recipe. If using 3 cake pans, divide the ingredients in half and make the recipe twice. To the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment add egg whites. Beat whites until foamy. Gradually add 1 c sugar to the whites, beating until soft peaks. Scrape whites into a clean mixing bowl and set aside. Wipe bowl clean and set on stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment, add flour, remaining 1 1/2 c sugar, baking powder, and salt. While on medium-low speed add 8 oz lukewarm water into dry ingredients; increase speed to medium and add in oil, egg yolk, and vanilla. Beat until mixture is smooth and no streaks of flour remain, scrape sides of bowl with silicone spatula as needed. Fold whites into batter in 3 additions. Divide batter evenly between 6 clean bowls, each portion will weigh 11 oz. Add a scant 1/4 tsp gel food coloring to each bowl. Adjust coloring as needed, folding coloring through as to not deflate your batter. Gently pour each colored batter into a prepared cake pan. Transfer cakes to preheated oven, bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, 15-20 min. Cool cakes in pans on wire racks for 10 min. Turn cakes out of the pans onto the racks and cool completely. 


Buttercream Frosting:
12 large egg whites, at room temperature
21 oz (3 c) granulated sugar
3 lb (12 sticks) unsalted butter, chilled, cut into 1" pieces
1 tbsp vanilla bean paste, vanilla extract, or almond extract
3/4 tsp fine kosher salt

To the bowl of a stand mixer add egg whites and sugar; whisk to blend. Bring 2" of water to a simmer in a medium saucepan. Place the bowl with the whites and sugar over the simmering water and heat, whisking constantly, until the mixture reaches 145F (hot to the touch) on an instant-read thermometer. Remove mixture from the heat and attach bowl to a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment. Whip the mixture on high speed until it cools to room temperature, is light and billowing, and resembles marshmallow fluff. If the mixture is warm, it will melt the butter. Test the temperature of the meringue by touching the bottom outside of the bowl, it should feel room temperature. Replace whisk attachment with paddle attachment. With the mixer on medium-high speed, add chilled butter, a couple of tbsp at a time, allowing each addition to blend in fully before adding the next. Halfway through adding the butter, stop the mixer and use a silicone spatula to scrape down the sides of the bowl thoroughly. Continue to whip until all the butter has been added and the mixture is velvety and smooth. Add the vanilla bean paste, and salt, whip to incorporate. Keep buttercream in airtight container in refrigerator for up to 1 week or in the freezer for up to 2 months. Let come to room temperature and rewhip in the mixer with the paddle attachment before using.

Assembly:
Set cake on cardboard cake round same circumference as cake, then on turntable. First, divide cake, by eye, into 2 layers. Alternately, using a ruler and toothpicks, insert toothpicks around circumference of cake. Each layer will be 3/4-1" thick. Insert knife into side of cake and, holding knife steady and level, slowly rotate turntable and move knife back and forth in gently swaying motion toward center of cake. Remove top layer and set aside. Repeat as necessary. Brush any loose crumbs off layers and turntable. If using a syrup, evenly brush or mist over cut surface of bottom cake layer. We began with red. Apply a thin layer of Buttercream Frosting on cake and spread into a uniform layer no thicker than 1/2". Top with second layer of cake and repeat process with additional layers. Straighten layers as necessary until you have all six colors layered. Apply a generous portion of frosting to top of cake. Using a long offset spatula, spread frosting smoothly and evenly to sides of cake, then use overhand to spread frosting around sides of the cake. Hold the spatula vertically at a 90-degree angle to turntable or plate and slowly turn the cake. Remove excess frosting from cake and fill any holes. Set crumb coat by transferring cake to refrigerator or freezer until crumb coat is firm to the touch. Follow with another thicker layer, using same technique as crumb coat. Finish can be smooth, or using the back of a spoon, swooshes or spikes can be designed in the frosting. A piping bag fitted with a decorative tip can be used to pipe decorations and a decorative border around the cake.






