Red Velvet Beet Cake
   --Todd Masonis, Greg D'Alesandre, Lisa Vega, and Molly Gore (Dandelion Chocolate)

Cake:
672 g/1.5 lbs medium red beets
butter or nonstick cooking spray
5 large eggs at room temp
2 3/4 c/570 g/20 oz sugar
1/2 tsp/2 g kosher salt
2 1/4 c/226 g/8 oz cake flour, sifted
5 tbsp/36 g/1 1/4 oz finely ground 70% chocolate (use a spice grinder)

Preheat the oven to 350F. Wrap each beet in foil, and roast the beets for ~1 hr, until a knife pokes easily through the entire flesh. Allow the beets to cool in the foil, then carefully peel each beet, discarding the skins. Puree the beets in a blender on high speed with 3 tbsp water until very smooth, ~1-2 min. Measure out 2 c + 2 tbsp (480 g/12 oz) of the puree and set aside. Reserve the remaining for another use. Butter or spray 2 8" round cake pans, line them with parchment, and grease again. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, whisk the eggs, sugar, and salt on high speed until the mixture becomes pale in color, and falls back on itself in ribbons when the whisk is removed, 4-6 min. Fold in the beet puree until the batter is streaked with color but not completely incorporated. Sift the cake flour and finely ground chocolate, then fold them into the batter until just combined. Divide evenly between the cake pans. Bake for 25-30 min, until a cake tester comes out clean. Allow the cakes to cool completely on a wire rack and refrigerate for 2-3 hrs. Slice the cakes in half horizontally using a serrated knife to make 4 rounds.

Ganache:
2 3/4 c/412 g/ 14 oz chopped 70% chocolate
3/4 c/150 g/5 1/2 oz sugar
2 c/450 g/16 oz heavy cream

Place the chocolate in a large bowl and set aside. Heat the sugar over medium low heat in a dry heavy duty saucepan. Watch it carefully - the sugar on the bottom will begin to melt. When you see the edges begin to brown, use a heatproof spatula to drag the sugar toward the center to prevent any burning, and continue to stir occasionally until the sugar is completely melted and has turned an amber color. Remove the pan from the heat and immediately start pouring the cream into the caramel in a small, steady stream while whisking constantly. The caramel will bubble violently and may even seize up slightly, and that's ok. Continue to whisk, and put the pan back on high heat. As you bring the caramel liquid to a boil, any seized sugar chunks that may remain should dissolve. Once the liquid reaches a rolling boil, immediately pour it over the chocolate. Let the hot cream sit undisturbed on top of the chocolate for 30 s. Then use a whisk to stir slowly at first, then more vigorously as the chocolate and cream combine and the mixture thickens. Allow the ganache to cool completely and thicken before assembling the cake.

Using a large offset spatula, spread a thin layer of ganache evenly on top of each cake layer, and layer one on top of another to create a 4 layer cake. Before cutting, allow cake to set in the refrigerator, uncovered, for ~1 hr. The cake will keep in an airtight container at room temp for several days or in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
