Rhubarb Ribbon Cake
  --Cook's Country

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat to 350F. Grease 3 8" round cake pans, lined with parchment paper, grease parchment, and flour pans.

Rhubarb:
1 1/2 lbs fresh rhubarb, trimmed
1 c (7 oz) sugar

Using vegetable peeler, peel 1 ribbon from each side of each rhubarb stalk. Toss ribbons and 1/4 c sugar together in bowl. Slice remaining peeled rhubarb thin (should have 4 c) and toss with 1/4 c sugar in second bowl. Arrange half of rhubarb ribbons in 1 perpared pan in neat single layer to cover entire pan bottom, cutting edges to fit. Arrange remaining ribbons over top, perpendicular to first layer, cutting edges to fit. Arrange 1 c sliced rhubarb in even layer in each of remaining 2 pans. Combine remaining 2 c sliced rhubarb and remainin 1/2 c sugar in medium saucepan and bring to a boil over medium high heat. Cook until tender, ~2 min. Using immersion blender, process rhubarb mixture until smooth, ~30 s; let cool completely.

Cake:
2 c (8 oz) cake flour
1 1/2 c (10 1/2 oz) sugar
1 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp baking soda
3/4 tsp salt
3/4 c buttermilk
5 large egg yolks + 3 large egg whites
8 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled
3 tbsp vegetable oil
1 1/2 tsp vanilla
1/8 tsp cream of tartar

Whisk flour, 1 1/4 c sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt together in large bowl, Whisk buttermilk, yolks, butter, oil, and vanillla together in separate bowl. Add buttermilk mixture to flour mixture and whisk until just combined. Using stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment, whip egg whites and cream of tartar on medium low speed until foamy, ~1 min. Increase speed to medium high and whip whites to soft, billowy mounds, ~1 min. Gradually add remaining 1/4 c sugar and whip until glossy, stiff peaks form, 2-3 min. Whisk 1/3 of whites into batter. Using rubber spatula, gently fold remaining whites into better until no white streaks remain. Distribute batter evenly among pans, smooth tops, and gently tap pans on counter to release air bubbles. Bake until tops are light golden brown and toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 22-25 min, rotating pans halfway through baking. Let cakes cool 15 min in pans. Remove cakes from pans, discard parchment, and let cakes cool completely on wire racks, ~2 hrs.

Frosting:
1 lb (4 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 32 pieces and softened
1/2 tsp salt
4 c (1 lb) confectioners' sugar

Using stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment, whip butter, salt, and cooled rhubarb on medium low speed until combined. Slowly add usgar and continue to mix until smooth, ~2 min longer. Increase speed to medium high and whip frosting until light and fluffy, ~5 min.


Assembly:
Reserve cake with ribbons for top. Place 1 cake layer, rhubarb side up, on cake plate and spread 1 c frosting evenly over top, right to edge of cake. Repeate with second layer and 1 c frosting. Top with ribbon cake. Frost sides of cake with hing layer of frosting, ~3/4 c. Using basketweave pastry tip, pipe remaining frosting in horizontal bands around sides of cake. Serve.
