Rhubarb Upside-Down Cake

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 350 F. Grease 8" square baking pan, line bottom with parchment paper, and grease parchment.

Streusel:
1/2 c (2 1/2 oz) ap flour
1/2 c sliced almonds
1/4 c (1 3/4 oz) sugar
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
1/4 tsp table salt

Stir all ingredients in medium bowl until well combined. Set aside

Rhubarb:
3/4 c (5 1/4 oz) sugar
1 1/2 tsp cornstarch
1 tsp grated lemon zest
1 lb rhubarb, trimmed and cut into 1/2" pieces
2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted

Whisk sugar, cornstarch, and lemon zest together in large bowl. Add rhubarb and stir well to coat. Drizzle with butter and stir to incorporate. Transfer rhubarb mixture to prepared pan and press rhubarb pieces into bottom of pan, making sure there are no large gaps (pieces may not fit in single layer).

Cake:
1 c (5 oz) ap flour
1 1/2 tsp ground cardamom
1 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp table salt
1 c (7 oz) sugar
2 large eggs
6 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1/2 c sour cream
1 tsp grated lemon zest + 1 tbsp juice
1 tsp vanilla 
2 tbsp red currant jelly

Whisk flour, cardamom, baking powder, and salt together in medium bowl; set aside. Whisk sugar and eggs in large bowl until thick and homogeneous, ~45 s. Whisk in butter until combined. Add sour cream, lemon zest and juice, and vanilla; whisk until combined. Add flour mixture and whisk until just combined. Pour batter into pan and spread evenly over rhubarb mixture. Break up streusel with your hands and sprinkle in even layer over batter. Bake until cake is golden brown and toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 45-50 min.  Transfer pan to wire rack and let cool for 20 min. Run knife around edges of pan to loosen cake, then invert onto serving platter. Let cool for ~10 min. Microwave jelly in small bowl until fluid, ~20 s. Using pastry brush, gently dab jelly over rhubarb topping. Serve warm or at room temperature.


Notes: can substitute thawed, drained frozen rhubarb for the fresh.
