Stone Fruit Upsidedown Cake with Coriander and Orange
  --Asha Loupy

1 1/2 tsp whole coriander (Nandani)
1 1/2 c ap flour + more for dusting
1 1/4 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted + more for greasing
1/2 c light or dark brown sugar, packed
1–1 1/2 lb stone fruit, pits removed, cut in half for smaller fruits like plums, or cut in large wedges if larger like nectarines and peaches
1 orange
2/3 c  sugar
2 large eggs, at room temperature
3/4 c full-fat Greek yogurt
1/2 c mild evoo
2 tsp orange blossom water

Preheat the oven to 350F. Lightly grease and flour a 9" round baking pan and set aside. Heat a small skillet over medium high heat. Add the coriander seeds and toast until fragrant and just turning golden, ~1–2 min. Transfer the toasted coriander to a spice grinder or mortar and grind into medium-fine powder. Mix the ground coriander with the flour, 1 tsp of kosher salt, baking powder and baking soda in a medium bowl and set aside. Combine the melted butter, brown sugar and remaining 1/4 tsp of kosher salt in a medium bowl and whisk until it forms a smooth paste. Pour the mixture into the reserved baking pan, spreading it into an even layer. Arrange the cut fruit on top in concentric circles, or your preferred design, on the butter and sugar mixture. Set aside. Zest the orange into a large bowl. Halve the orange, squeeze 3 tbsp of juice into a small bowl and set aside. Add the sugar to the orange zest and mix with your fingers, rubbing the zest into the sugar (this will infuse the sugar with tons of orange-y goodness). Add the eggs and whisk until the mixture has thickened and lightened in color slightly, ~2 min. Add the reserved orange juice, yogurt, evoo and orange blossom water and whisk until smooth. Add the reserved dry ingredients to the wet mixture and gently whisk until smooth, making sure not to over mix. Pour the batter into the pan, gently spreading it evenly over the fruit. Place the cake pan on a sheet pan and bake until golden on top and a toothpick can cleanly be inserted into the middle, ~40–45 min. Let the cake cool for 10 min. While the cake is still warm, place a plate on top of the pan and carefully flip upside down to release the cake. Serve warm or at room temperature with a dollop of whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.

