Vegan Coconut Tres Leches Cake with Strawberry Sauce
  --ANITALECTRIC
  
Cake:
4 c + 1 tbsp ap flour, presifted
1/2 c + 2 tbsp arrowroot starch (can sub cornstarch)
2 1/2 tbsp baking powder
1 1/4 tsp fine sea salt
1 3/4 c sugar
1 1/4 c safflower oil (can sub canola)
1/4 c kabocha squash puree* (can sub canned pumpkin)
1 tbsp + 1 tsp white vinegar
3 tbsp + 1 tsp ground golden flaxseed
1/2 c + 2 tbsp warm water
1 2/3 c almond milk, plain unsweetened, at room temperature

Butter and flour a 9x13” baking pan. Sift together the flour, arrowroot, baking powder, and salt 3 times. In a separate bowl, combine the sugar, oil, lemon zest, vanilla, squash puree and vinegar. Blend the ground flax and water together until white and frothy. Stop blender, add the almond milk and blend until frothy again. Add flax mixture to the liquid ingredients and fold together until smooth. Gently fold in dry ingredients until no large pockets of flour remain (but leave the batter lumpy). Scrape batter into greased baking pan and leave to proof for 10-15 min while oven preheats to 400F. Bake cake on center rack for 5 min. Lower oven temperature to 375F and continue baking for 20-30 min, pausing halfway to rotate pan, until cake is golden and set on the top, and tester inserted in center comes out clean. Remove to a cooling rack to cool completely.

Soak:
3x13.5 oz cans light coconut milk, unsweetened
2 c almond milk, plain unsweetened
2 c pure maple syrup
1/4 c cognac

Combine ingredients in a saucepan and heat on medium for 5-10 min while stirring, until it begins to bubble and froth. Remove from heat and cool to room temperature. Pierce the cooled sponge cake throughout with a fork. Pour some of the soaking liquid over the entire surface of the cake until the holes are full. Repeat every few minutes, adding just enough each time to fill the holes. (Soaking the cake gradually allows for even distribution.) Cover and refrigerate. Allow cake to soak in the liquid for 12-24 hr.

Whipped topping:
4x13.5 oz cans full-fat coconut milk (with guar gum is ok but no other additives), chilled (see note)
1/4 c confectioner's sugar
1/4 c arrowroot starch
Zest from 1 lemon****
1 tbsp pure vanilla extract
1 tsp almond extract (optional)

Place mixer bowl in ice bath to keep cold while working. Alternately, you can chill the bowl in the freezer for at least 20 min (I prefer the ice bath method because you can take your time with the recipe without risk of losing volume). Scrape chilled coconut cream into the mixer bowl. Beat the cream until smooth. Add the confectioner’s sugar and arrowroot and continue to beat until smooth. With the mixer on low, add the extracts and zest. Increase the speed and allow the cream to aerate. To loosen the texture and disperse any small clumps, add reserved coconut liquid 1 tbsp at a time, being careful not to add too much or the whip will not hold its shape (I used ~4 tbsp). Reserve remaining liquid for another use (note: it can be frozen). Spread the finished whipped cream (while still cold) over the top of the soaked cake. Form a border around all four sides to hold the strawberry sauce inside, or transfer some of the whip to a piping bag and pipe the border. Return frosted cake to refrigerator for at least 20 min before adding the strawberry sauce.

Sauce:
16 oz strawberries, hulled and quartered*****
3 tbsp sugar
3 tbsp lemon juice (from 1 medium lemon)
3 tbsp arrowroot starch
2 c unsweetened coconut shavings, toasted (optional)

Place the strawberries and the sugar in a pan and simmer over medium heat until bubbling and strawberries have started to wilt around the edges. Make a slurry with the lemon juice and arrowroot starch by mixing them together in a cup until smooth. Add slurry to the strawberries while stirring and cook for 1-2 min. Transfer to blender and process until smooth. (Keep blender on low setting to avoid aeration). Transfer to a container to chill sauce completely to room temperature or refrigerate overnight. Once the sauce has chilled, pour over the frosted cake and spread into an even layer. Return cake to refrigerator to chill for at least 1 hr, or preferably, overnight. Optional: sprinkle toasted, unsweetened, coconut flakes or toasted, sliced almonds over the cake before serving.


Notes: 
Coconut cream: For easier preparation of the cream, drain the liquid from the bottom of your cans of coconut milk while they are freshly home from the store and still at grocery store temperature. Reserve all the cream in a one quart container, and the liquid in another. Chill both overnight before preparing the whipped cream. Second note about this ingredient: Coconut cream spoils as quickly as heavy cream. If you plan to store the finished cake refrigerated for more than the recommended 4 days, I recommend you simmer the coconut cream for 5-10 min before chilling overnight, in order to extend the shelf life of the cake.

Kabocha squash puree: To make puree from scratch: peel, seed and chop the squash. Simmer in a thin layer of coconut milk until soft, replenishing with a small splashes of milk as necessary to prevent sticking. Pulse in a food processor until smooth. Keep puree refrigerated in a tightly sealed container until ready for use. Freeze if not used within 5 days.

