Yellow Cake with Chocolate Frosting

Cake:
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened + more for greasing
3¼ c ap flour + more for dusting
1 tbsp dry milk powder
1 tbsp baking powder
1½ tsp kosher salt
1 tsp baking soda
2 c sugar
8 (½ c) egg yolks
1¼ c buttermilk

Preheat the oven to 350°. Grease 2 8" cake pans and dust with flour. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, milk and baking powders, salt and baking soda. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter with the sugar until light and fluffy. With the motor running, add the egg yolks, one at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl as needed. Add the dry ingredients in 2 batches, alternating with the buttermilk, to form a smooth, thick batter. Divide the batter between the 2 prepared pans, using an offset spatula to smooth the tops. Bake until golden brown and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, 40 min. Remove the cakes from the oven and let cool for 10 min before inverting on a wire rack and letting them cool completely. Trim ¼" off before inverting on a wire rack and letting them cool completely. Trim ¼ before inverting on a wire rack and letting them cool completely. Trim ¼" off the top of each cake to make a flat surface. 

Frosting:
1 c (6 oz) milk chocolate chips
1 c (6 oz) semisweet chocolate chips
¾ c sour cream
4 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1½ c confectioners' sugar
1½ tsp kosher salt
1 tsp vanilla 

In a heatproof, microwavable bowl, combine the milk and semisweet chocolate chips. Microwave on high for 2 min, stirring after 1 min. Stir in the sour cream and let cool completely. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, add the remaining frosting ingredients and cream until light and fluffy. Then add the cooled chocolate mixture and mix to incorporate. 

Assemble:
Place 1 cake, cut-side up, on a cake stand. Spread 1¼ c of frosting over the surface of the cake. Place the other cake, cut-side down, on top. Using a bench scraper and a large offset spatula to smooth the edges, cover the cake completely with the remaining frosting. Let sit for 30 min at room temperature, then slice and serve.

