Aaliya's Doud Alle (Roasted Squash & Labneh Dip)
  --Asha Loupy

1/2 c (56 g) raw walnuts halves
1-1 1/2 lb (454-680 g) honeynut or butternut squash
4 tbsp (60 ml) evoo
2 tsp Surya Salt or fine sea salt, plus more
1 c (240 g) labneh
3 cloves garlic
1-2 tsp mild honey, such as acacia, orange blossom or wildflower (optional)
1 tsp caraway seeds
1 tsp Hariyali Fennel
1 tsp Byadgi Chilli or Kashmiri chili powder
Flaky sea salt, for finishing

Preheat the oven to 325F. Spread raw walnuts halves on a sheet pan and roast until fragrant and lightly toasted, 11-14 min. Remove from the oven and let cool. Increase the oven temperature to 400F. Cut 1-1 1/2 lb honeynut or butternut squash in half lengthwise and scoop out the seeds. Drizzle with 1 tbdp evoo and sprinkle the cut sides with 1 tsp fine sea salt. Place the squash cut-side down on a baking sheet and roast until tender, 25-30 min for honeynut squash or up to 45-55 min for butternut squash. Remove from the oven and let cool for 30 min. Place the cooled, roasted walnuts in a mortar and pound, breaking them up into small pieces about the size of pebbly sand, leaving some bigger pieces for texture. Scoop the roasted squash flesh into a bowl along with labneh, 1 grated garlic clove, 2/3 of the toasted walnuts, and the remaining 1 tsp fine sea salt. Mix with a fork, mashing the squash so that it still has a rustic texture (if you prefer a smoother dip, you can continue mashing until you reach the desired consistency or blend the squash separately before adding it to the labneh). Taste and adjust sweetness with 1-2 tsp mild honey, if desired, and salt, if necessary. (With honeynut squash, you might not need any honey, but with out-of-season butternut squash, season with honey, to taste.) Set aside. To prepare the tadka, thinly slice the remaining 2 garlic cloves. Then, heat the remaining 3 tbsp evoo in a small skillet or over medium heat. Add the sliced garlic, caraway seeds and fennel seeds, and cook, stirring or swirling frequently, until the garlic turns light golden, 1-3 min. Turn off the heat, add Kashmiri chili powder, and mix to combine. To serve, transfer the dip to a shallow serving bowl and create a swoosh pattern on the surface with the back of a spoon. Spoon the prepared tadka over the dip, sprinkle with the remaining ⅓ of the crushed toasted walnuts, and garnish with a smattering of flaky sea salt.
