Braised Oxtail French Dip Sandwich

Oxtail:
2 tbsp oil
2 1/2 lbs (10 each) oxtail
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
6 celery stalks cut into 2" pieces
4 carrots cut into 2" pieces
2 red onions quartered
2 garlic heads, halved crosswise
2 c red wine
4 c chicken stock
15 thyme sprigs
4 rosemary sprigs

Preheat oven to 300F. In a 6 quart ducth oven, heat the vegetable oil over medium high heat. Season the oxtails liberally with salt and pepper, then sear, turning as needed, until golden brown, 8-10 min. Transfer oxtails to a plate. Add the celery, carrots, and onions to the pan, and cook until golden, 5-7 min. Add the garlic and cook until fragrant, 1-2 min. Pour in the wine, stirring constantly to deglaze the pan, then return the oxtails to the pan and add stock, thyme and rosemary. Bring to a simmer, then cover and transfer to the oven. Cook until the oxtails are tender, 2.5-3hrs. Rasie the oven to 350F.

Gastrique:
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 red onion, medium dice
4 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 c granulated sugar
1 c red wine veingar

In a 10" skillet, heat the oil over medium high heat. Add the red onion and cook until lightly caramelized, 5-6 min. Stir in the garlic and cook until fragrant, 1-2 min. Add the sugar and vinegar to the pan and bring to a simmer. Cook until reduced to a syrup, 16-18 min, then set aside.

Caramelized Onions and Mushrooms:
2 tbsp vegetable oil
8 oz cremini mushrooms, thinly sliced
1 yellow onion, thinly sliced
1 tbsp butter
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

In a 10" skillet, heat the oil over medium high heat. Add the mushrooms and cook until golden brown, 4-5 min. Add the onions to the pan and continue to cook until caramelized, 6-8 min. Stir in the butter to coat and season with salt and pepper.

Assembly:
4 haogie roolse, halved lengthwise and toasted
8 slices havarti cheese

Once tender, remove the oxtails from the pan and place in a bowl, Once cool enough to handle, pick apart the meat and transfer to a medium saucepan, discarding the bones and any cartilage. Strain the remaining contents of the pot, reserving the liquid and discarding the vegetables. You should have 3 1/2 c braising liquid; keep warm. To the saucepan with the picked meat, add 1 1/2 c of the liquid. Bring to a simmer over medium heat and cook until the liquid has reduced to a glaze on the meat, 16-18 min. Stir in 1/2 of the red onion gastrique, adding more to taste. Season with salt and pepper. On a baking sheet, open and lay out the toasted hoagie rolls. Divide the meat between the rolls, then divide the onions and mushrooms over the oxtail. Top each sandwich with 2 slices of cheese and place in the oven. Bake until the cheese has melted, 4-5 min. Press each sandwich closed, then halve crosswise and serve alongside the braising liquid for dipping.
