Butternut Squash Curry with Chickpeas
  --Mike Hultquist

Paste:
4 small spicy red peppers. chopped Thai peppers are best, but you can use any to you choice – cayenne or red serrano are good substitutes
1 shallot chopped
4 cloves garlic chopped
1 tbsp galangal chopped (or use ginger)
1 stalk lemongrass trimmed woody parts removed (or use 1 tbsp lemongrass paste)
1 tbsp fresh chopped cilantro
2 tbsp tomato paste
2 tbsp fish sauce
1 tbsp shrimp paste
1 tbsp chili powder or more as desired for spicier
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp sugar
1/2tsp sea salt
1/2 tsp ground black pepper
1/2 tsp ground white pepper
2 tbsp lime juice

Add all of the ingredients to a food processor or blender. Process until smooth, scraping down the sides as needed. Taste and adjust to your personal tastes. Need more salt? More lime juice? A pinch of sugar? Adjust as needed. Strain out excess liquid, if desired, or use as-is.

Curry:
2 tbsp coconut oil or use vegetable oil
2 medium onion chopped
2-4 small chilies chopped (optional, for spicy - use bird's eye or local chilies)
6 cloves garlic chopped
6 tbsp curry paste or Thai red curry paste 
2 tbsp curry powder (I used yellow curry powder) - use 2 tbsp for extra spicy
3 lb cubed butternut squash 3/4" chunks - ~2.5 cups
2x14 oz can chickpeas drained and rinsed
2x14 oz can coconut milk
2 c low-sodium chicken broth or water use vegetable broth for vegetarian
2 tbsp fish sauce omit for vegetarian
2 stalk lemongrass optional - bruise the stalk by hitting it with the back of a knife so it infuses flavor
salt and pepper to taste
juice from 1 small lime ~1 tbsp
FOR SERVING: Fresh chopped cilantro or green onion, lime wedges, chili flake, rice or rice noodles (if desired)

Heat the oil a large pan or pot to medium heat. Add the onion and chilies and cook for 5 min to soften. Add the garlic and curry paste. Cook for 1 min, stirring, to bloom the flavor. Stir in the curry powder along with the butternut squash, chickpeas, coconut milk, chicken broth or water, fish sauce, and lemongrass. Season with salt and pepper. Stir. Reduce the heat and cover. Simmer for 20 min, stirring part way through to avoid sticking, or until the butternut squash is softened to your liking. Remove from heat and stir in fresh lime juice. Serve over rice or noodles (if desired, or just serve into bowls), topped with fresh chopped parsley or green onion and chili flakes. Discard the lemongrass stalk.


Notes: I used mekrut limes. The paste is not red. 
