Almost Vegan Lasagna
  --America's Test Kitchen
  
Sauce:
2 tbsp evoo 
1 small onion, chopped fine
1/2 green bell pepper, chopped fine
1 c coarsely chopped walnuts
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tbsp minced fresh parsley
1 1/2 tsp dried oregano
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tp onion powder
1/4 tsp table salt
1/4 tsp pepper
1 tbsp tomato paste
1/4 c dry red wine
1 tsp vegetable broth base (optional)
24 oz jar marinara sauce

Heat oil in Dutch oven over medium heat until shimmering. Add onion, pepper, and walnuts and cook until onions are translucent, 2-3 min. Stir in garlic, parsley, oregano, garlic powder, onion powder, salt, and pepper and cook until fragrant, ~1 min. Stir in tomato paste; wine; and vegetable base, if using, and cook until wine is reduced by half, 1-2 min. Stir in marinara; bring to simmer; and cook until flavors meld, 6-8 min. Season with salt and pepper to taste.

"Ricotta":
1 ripe avocado, halved, pitted, and cut into 1" pieces
1/2 c plain whole-milk Greek yogurt
2 tbsp chopped fresh parsley
1 tbsp lemon juice
1 tsp onion powder
1 tsp garlic powder
1/4 tsp table salt
1/4 tsp pepper

Pulse all ingredients in food processor until mixture is cohesive but not completely smooth, ~10 pulses, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.

Topping:
1/2 c panko bread crumbs
2 tbsp nutritional yeast
2 tbsp evoo 
1/8 tsp table salt

Combine all ingredients in small bowl.

Assembly:
2 zucchini (1- 12 oz each), trimmed

Adjust oven racks to upper-middle and lower-middle positions and heat oven to 350F. Using mandoline, slice zucchini lengthwise into 1/16" thick noodles. Cut noodles in half crosswise. Grease 4 shallow 6 oz gratin dishes. Spread 1/4 c tomato sauce in bottom of each dish. Shingle 4 zucchini noodles on top of sauce on slight diagonal. Shingle 4 more zucchini noodles over first layer on slight diagonal in opposite direction. Spread 2 tbsp “ricotta” over noodles. Repeat layering in each dish as follows: 1/4 c sauce, 8 noodles, 2 tbsp ricotta, and 1/4 c sauce. Sprinkle bread crumb mixture evenly over each dish. Place dishes on 2 rimmed baking sheets (2 dishes per sheet) and bake for 10 min. Remove sheets from oven and heat broiler. Place one sheet on lower rack and broil until crumbs are golden brown, 2-4 min. Repeat with second sheet. Serve.



Notes: If you have vegetable broth base on hand, add a little to the tomato sauce. Rao's marinara is recommended. Use coconut or almond milk yogurt to make this dish vegan.


