Beef Enchilada Casserole
  --Lisa Longley

Sauce:
1 tbsp olive oil
1 small yellow onion diced
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 1/2 tsp cumin
2 tsp chili powder
1 tbsp ap flour
15 oz tomato sauce
1 c chicken stock
2 cloves garlic minced

In a large skillet, heat 1 tbsp oil over medium heat. Add 1 diced onion and 1/2 tsp kosher salt. Saute until the onion is translucent, ~5 min. Stir chili powder and cumin into the onion for the enchilada sauce and cook for ~30 s. Then stir in 1 tbsp ap flour. Slowly whisk in chicken stock. Then stir in the tomato sauce and minced garlic. Bring to a simmer and cook, stirring occasionally for 5 min. Transfer the enchilada sauce to a blender and blend to make smooth (optional). Pour 1/2 c in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.

Filling:
1 lb ground beef
1/2 tsp salt
1/4 tsp black pepper
1 small yellow onion diced
4.5 oz diced green chiles
15 oz black beans drained and rinsed
12 corn tortillas (6")
3 c shredded colby jack cheese

Preheat your oven to 350F. Spray a 9x13" baking dish with cooking spray and set aside. While the onion is cooking, add the ground beef to a separate skillet to make the filling, breaking it up and seasoning it with salt and pepper. Once broken up, add the second diced onion and cook until the beef is cooked through, ~5 min. Once the beef is cooked through, remove from the heat, drain the fat and stir in the green chiles and black beans. Pour 1/2 c of the sauce into the mixture and stir. Dip 6 tortillas in the remaining sauce to coat them and line the bottom of the casserole dish with them. Divide the beef mixture in half, and add half of it to the top the tortillas in the pan. Top with 1 c of cheese. Dip the remaining 6 tortillas in the enchilada suce and top with the remaining beef mixture and 2 c colby jack cheese. Bake uncovered for 20 min or until the cheese is bubbly.


Notes: can use 2 c store bought enchilada sauce. I subbed fresh bell pepper for green chilies and sharp cheddar for cobly. if you want chicken, can sub 3 c shredded chicken for the beef.


