Deep Dish Lasagna
  --Maria del mar Cuadra

Bolognese:
2 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp evoo
1 small yellow onion, finely chopped
1 medium carrot, peeled and finely chopped
1 celery stalk, finely chopped
1 tbsp tomato paste
1 lb ground chuck (80% lean)
1/2 lb ground pork
Salt
1/2 c dry white wine
1 c whole milk
28 oz can whole peeled tomatoes
1 bay leaf

Place a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 300F. Heat the butter and oil in a dutch oven over medium-high heat until butter is bubbling. Add the onion, carrot, and celery and cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are softened (but not browned), 6-8 min. Add the tomato paste and cook, stirring, until darkened in color and fragrant, 1-2 min. Add the beef and pork and season generously with salt. Cook, stirring and breaking up clumps, until meat is no longer pink, 8-10 min. Add the wine and cook until mostly evaporated, ~5 min. Stir in milk and cook until mostly evaporated, 8-10 min. At this point, the meat should look like it’s well coated in gravy. Crush the tomatoes with your hands and add to the pot, or pour them into the pot and use kitchen shears to cut them into bite-size pieces. Add the bay leaf, bring to boil, and transfer to the oven (uncovered). Bake until the sauce is thick and jammy, ~3 hr, stirring it every 30 min. If at any point it starts sticking or looks very dry, add water, 1/2 c at a time, as needed. Remove the Dutch oven from the oven and season the sauce to taste. Transfer the Bolognese to a large bowl, scraping the pot as clean as possible with a rubber spatula. The Bolognese can be made up to 5 days in advance and stored in the refrigerator, or frozen for up to 3 months. When ready to use, warm bolognese prior to assembling lasagna. If using frozen, thaw completely in the refrigerator and warm. (Yield: ~5 c).

Mornay:
3 tbsp unsalted butter
3 tbsp ap flour
3 c whole milk, warmed
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1/8 tsp freshly grated nutmeg
2 oz Parmesan cheese, finely grated (~1 c)
2 garlic cloves, finely grated

While the Bolognese is in the oven, melt the butter in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat until bubbling. Add the flour and whisk until a paste is formed. Cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture smells nutty, ~1 min. Slowly and steadily pour in the warm milk while whisking, making sure to reach all around the bottom and sides of the saucepan. Continue stirring until the sauce begins to simmer gently, about 3 minutes, or until it’s thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. Add the nutmeg and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir in the cheese and garlic and remove from the heat. Use the sauce immediately or press a piece of parchment paper or plastic wrap directly on the surface of the sauce (to prevent a skin from forming) until ready to assemble the lasagna. The Mornay can be made up to 3 days in advance: Cool completely, then transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate. Warm before using. If it’s too thick and pudding-like, stir in a bit of milk. (Yield: ~3 c).

Assembly:
14 sheets oven-ready (no-boil) lasagna
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 oz Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese, finely grated (~1/2 c)

Place a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 375F. Fill a large mixing bowl with warm water and soak the lasagna noodles until pliable, ~20 min. Rub the bottom and sides of the Dutch oven with butter. Spread a scant 3/4 c Bolognese on the bottom. Remove 1 lasagna sheet from the bowl, wipe off excess water, and lay over the Bolognese. Repeat with a second sheet, placing it next to the first sheet. (There will be gaps between the edges of the sheet and the Dutch oven, and that is completely fine.) Top the first layer of sheets with another scant 3/4 c of Bolognese and a generous 1/3 c of Mornay sauce, using a spoon to combine and spread them evenly. Repeat with the remaining lasagna sheets, Bolognese, and Mornay. The very top layer of the lasagna will be all Mornay. Sprinkle the top layer with cheese, cover with a lid, and bake for 20 min. Remove the lid, increase the oven temperature to 425F, and bake until bubbling and browned in spots, 15-20 min longer. Remove the lasagna from the oven and let cool for 10-15 min before serving.

  
