Johnny Marzetti Casserole
  --Sara Bir

2 oz mushrooms, cleaned and chopped or sliced
1 tbsp olive oil or neutral cooking oil
1 large onion, chopped
5 cloves garlic, minced
1 bell pepper (any color), seeded and cored, finely chopped
salt, to taste
1 1/2 lb lean ground beef (90:10 is good)
28 oz can whole plum tomatoes in juice
3 tbsp tomato paste
3/4 tsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp crushed red pepper flakes
freshly ground black pepper
12 oz (2 3/4 c) uncooked elbow macaroni
8 oz grated cheddar cheese (2 generous c), divided
4 oz grated Parmesan cheese (1 1/2 c), divided

Preheat oven to 350F. Grease a 9x13" baking dish; set aside. Heat a large, deep skillet over medium-high heat. Add the mushrooms to the dry skillet. As they heat, the mushrooms will give off their moisture. Stir them occasionally until they are soft, slightly browned, and most of their liquid has evaporated, 5-8 min. Scrape the mushrooms in a bowl; set aside. Wipe out the skillet and return it to the burner. Add the oil; when it ripples, add the onion and cook until translucent, ~6 min. Add the garlic and bell pepper and cook 1 min longer. Season generously with salt. Add the beef, reduce the heat to medium, and cook, breaking the beef up with a spoon into small clumps. Stop when the meat is no longer pink, ~8 min. Use your hands to crush the tomatoes directly into the pan (wear an apron) and add the remaining juices from the can. Add the tomato paste, oregano, pepper flakes, and black pepper and simmer until saucy, ~20 min. Add the reserved mushrooms; simmer 2 min longer. Taste and adjust the seasoning as needed with salt. As the sauce cooks, bring a large pot of salted water to boil. Add the pasta and cook until it still retains a bit of bite. Drain. Return the pasta to the pot; add the cooked sauce and toss. Mix in half of the cheeses, then dump into the greased dish. Scatter the remaining grated cheese on top. Bake until the sauce bubbles and the cheese is lightly browned, ~30 min. Let rest 10 min before serving. You can refrigerate leftovers, tightly covered, for up to 4 days. The baked casserole freezes well. You can even freeze the entire casserole to reheat later.

