Million Dollar Ravioli Casserole
  --Meghan Splawn

Nonstick cooking spray
20 oz package fresh cheese ravioli, such as Buitoni or Rana
40 oz jar marinara sauce, divided
1 lb 90% lean ground beef
1/2 lb mild Italian sausage, removed from casings if links
8 oz package cream cheese, room temperature
1 c ricotta cheese
1/4 c sour cream
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tsp Italian seasoning
1/4 tsp kosher salt
2 c shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1 c grated Parmesan cheese

Prehear oven to 400F. Generously grease a 9x13" baking dish and set aside. Combine the uncooked ravioli with 1 c of marinara sauce in a medium bowl and toss to coat. Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the beef and sausage to the hot pan to brown. Use a spatula or wooden spoon to break up the meat and cook until browned and no longer pink, ~12 min. Remove the pan from the heat and add 2 c of marinara sauce. Stir to combine and set aside to cool while you make the cheese mixture. In another medium bowl, combine the cream cheese, ricotta cheese, sour cream, garlic powder, Italian seasoning, and salt. Mix until mostly smooth, a few small lumps are ok. Pour the remaining c of marinara sauce into the bottom of the prepared pan. Arrange ~1/3 of the sauced ravioli in a single layer on top of the sauce. Use a spatula to dollop the cheese mixture over the ravioli and then spread that into an even layer. Top the ricotta mixture with the remaining ravioli in as even a layer as possible—you will have some overlapping ravioli here. Add the meat and sauce mixture on top of the ravioli. If you have any leftover sauce, pour this over the final layer of meat. Sprinkle on the 2 cheeses. Bake covered with foil for 25 min. Remove the cover and bake until browned and bubbly, an additional 10-15 min. If your casserole doesn’t brown to your liking in this time, you can place it under the broiler for 2-3 min. Let cool for a few minutes before serving. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 4 days.



Notes: to make slightly heathier, can add blanched cabbage leaves as a layer



