Miso Chicken and Rice
  --Smitten Kitchen
  
2 tbsp (30ml) shoyu
1 tbsp (15ml) oyster sauce
1 tbsp (15ml) Shaoxing wine
1 tbsp (15ml) white or red miso
1/2 tsp kosher salt (optional)
1/2 tsp granulated sugar
1/2 tsp toasted sesame oil
white pepper or freshly ground black pepper
1 lb (455 g) boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 1" strips
8 fresh shiitake mushroom caps, thinly sliced, or 4 dried shiitakes, soaked, stemmed, and thinly sliced
1 c (200 g) jasmine rice
1 c (235 ml) chicken broth or water, plus 2 tablespoons extra for the oven option
1/4" slice of fresh ginger, minced or grated
2 scallions, thinly sliced, whites and greens separated

In a large bowl, combine the shoyu, oyster sauce, wine, miso, salt (if using), sugar, sesame oil, and several grinds of white pepper. Add the chicken and mushrooms and stir so that they’re evenly coated. 


Post navigation
Previous post: simple crispy pan pizzaNext post: banana chocolate chip cake
Recipe
miso chicken and rice
February 10, 2026 Jump to recipe, comments
How do you cook when your kitchen isn’t available for kitchen-ing? On a Sunday last April, I awoke at the crack of dawn jet-lagged from an (excellent) trip to Amsterdam* to an email from my apartment building that ConEd had found a gas leak in the main line to the building and had shut down service for safety. With this, I was indoctrinated into a society of New Yorkers I previously hadn’t known existed, as NYC is apparently riddled with tales of people who lived without gas for (what seemed like the minimum of) 6 months and up to 18 months while their building trudged at a snail’s pace through rounds of repairs and inspections.


miso chicken and rice-1

Nevertheless, this is not a story of the woes of life in a place where the safety of a single pipe affects… everybody. No, this is about cooking, naturally, and how we managed in the (thankfully?) only four months in which my kitchen was not functioning as a so-called professional kitchen should. [Let’s pretend for editorial sake that my kitchen ever functions as a professional kitchen should.] Because while I might have kept my experience of this chapter of my cooking life offline forever — too niche! — I’ve recently received emails from two different people, one whose building is experiencing the same elsewhere in the city, and one who is about to undertake a kitchen renovation and both wanted advice on how a cook might cook when deprived of their galley. And I’m incapable of not answering a good question.

A countertop convection oven: Not sponsored, but I love my Breville Smart Oven. I bought it a decade ago because it was the ideal second oven for me, a person with a significant mismatch between the scale of my entertaining ambitions (big) and the size of my space (small). I use it to heat up an additional dish or two when the oven is at capacity; we also use it as a toaster. What I learned when it became my primary oven was that it turns out almost 80% of the stuff we cook fits in a 9×13-inch pan or smaller, i.e. the oven can handle it. Another bonus? It cooks evenly and doesn’t heat up the kitchen in the summer, the way a full-sized oven often does. [Breville, Williams-Sonoma, Amazon]
A plug-in induction burner: The gold standard of electromagnetic field/ferromagnetic cookware (just rolls off the tongue!) in test kitchens and almost anywhere you’ve seen a chef demo is the Breville brand one, but I wasn’t quite ready to cough up for it. Instead, I used the camping burners I keep around for video shoots. I can’t say I’d recommend them per se; they’re not winning any environmental awards but, as a temporary solution in a well-ventilated kitchen, it did the job.
A slow-cooker and/or InstantPot: While I don’t lean heavily on slow-cookers and/or InstantPots these days, they’d also be heroic to call in for making dinner without an oven or stove. We did, however, use our small outdoor grill a lot, as it was warm out.
The surprise item: A rice cooker: I’ve had two Zojirushi Micom 3-Cup rice cookers over the last 15 years and I’d still be on the first if it hadn’t slipped out of my hands once or twice. Oddly, it still worked fine even with, uh, a couple chunks of plastic missing but it was a little slower so replaced it this year. I aspire to keep my newer one forever. [Zojirushi, Williams-Sonoma (5.5-cup model), Amazon]


And what did I use that rice cooker for? Obsessively, this. I made miso chicken and rice (and variations) almost every week, and 10 months later we’re not even a little sick of it. It hails from the late Lucky Peach Magazine. I remember it having a kind of viral moment in 2016, which means it’s due for a reminder tour because it’s just plain excellent: full of flavor and honestly exemplary in weeknight ease. In the original recipe — Miso Claypot Chicken (No Claypot), the rice cooker is meant to act similar to a claypot, in that the rice is cooked with marinated meat and vegetables, although it doesn’t get the traditional crisped rice at the bottom. But you don’t need a rice cooker here, either. I find that this bakes in a foil-covered casserole dish in the oven in almost exactly the same amount of time, directions below.

miso chicken and rice-8

* Oops, I forgot to finish writing this trip up. Please nudge me. It was so magical to be in the Netherlands during tulip season.

Video


Miso Chicken and Rice
Servings: 3 to 4 Time: About 45 minutes, with prep Source: Adapted, barely, from Lucky Peach's Miso Claypot Chicken (No Claypot)
I’d say this safely serves 3 people but if you’ve got other food on the table — we always make a cucumber salad to go with, if not another vegetable — it might stretch to 4 servings. I’ve updated the added kosher salt to be optional as several commenters have reported it wasn’t necessary.
2 tablespoons (30ml) soy sauce
1 tablespoon (15ml) oyster sauce
1 tablespoon (15ml) Shaoxing wine
1 tablespoon (15ml) white or red miso
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt (optional)
1/2 teaspoon granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon toasted sesame oil
White pepper or freshly ground black pepper
1 pound (455 grams) boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 1-inch strips
8 fresh shiitake mushroom caps, thinly sliced, or 4 dried shiitakes, soaked, stemmed, and thinly sliced
1 cup (200 grams) jasmine rice
1 cup (235 ml) chicken broth or water, plus 2 tablespoons extra for the oven option
1/4-inch slice of fresh ginger, minced or grated
2 scallions, thinly sliced, whites and greens separated
Both cooking methods: In a large bowl, combine the soy sauce, oyster sauce, wine, miso, salt (if using), sugar, sesame oil, and several grinds of white pepper. Add the chicken and mushrooms and stir so that they’re evenly coated.

In a rice cooker: 
In the bowl of a 3 c or larger rice cooker, combine the rice, 1 c broth, and ginger. Scrape the chicken mixture and any marinade left in the bowl on top. Scatter with scallion whites. Close the cover, start a Quick or Regular cycle, and cook until the cycle is done. Open the lid and check the chicken for doneness; occasionally I need to move the pieces around and give it 5 more min to finish. Scatter with scallion greens and eat right away.

In the oven: 
Heat oven to 350F (175C). In a 1.5-2 qt baking dish (I used this), combine the rice, 1 c + 2 tbsp broth, and ginger. Scrape the chicken mixture and any marinade left in the bowl on top. Scatter with scallion whites. Cover tightly with foil and bake for 35-45 min, checking on the early end, until rice is tender and chicken is cooked. Double-check the chicken for doneness; you might need to shuffle the pieces around and give it 5-10 more min to finish. Scatter with scallion greens and eat right away.

Instant Pot:
 6 min on high pressure and then let the pressure release for 10 min. rice and water on the bottom and marinated chicken and mushrooms on top.

 

