One Pan Spanakopita Skillet
  --Alex Snodgrass

1 lb chicken thighs cut into 1” cubes
1 1/2 tsp Kosher salt divided
1 tsp dried oregano
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tsp smoked paprika
1/2 tsp cracked black pepper
2 tbsp olive oil divided
1 large yellow onion diced
4 cloves garlic minced
10 oz baby spinach roughly chopped
1 tbsp lemon zest about two lemons
1/4 c fresh lemon juice ~2 lemons
pinch of red pepper flakes
1 c long-grain white rice
2 c low-sodium chicken broth + more as needed
1/2 c whole milk ricotta
1 c fresh dill roughly chopped, plus more for serving
1 c fresh parsley roughly chopped, plus more for serving
4 oz feta crumbled + more for serving

In a 12" skillet with tall sides, heat 1 tbsp of olive oil over medium-high heat. Once hot, add the chicken, 1 tsp of the salt, dried oregano, garlic powder, smoked paprika and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally until the chicken is fully cooked through – ~7 min. Transfer the cooked chicken to a plate and set aside. To the same pan, add the remaining tbsp of oil and the yellow onion. Stir, scraping up the seasoning bits leftover from the chicken, and sauté until the onions are soft and golden, ~4 min. Add the garlic and sauté for 1 min more. Add in the spinach, lemon zest and lemon juice, deglazing the plan. Stir, and cover. Cook the spinach for 3-4 min until it has wilted. Remove the lid, add the pepper flakes, and stir to combine. The spinach should be cooked down and reduced in volume. To the spinach mixture, add in the uncooked rice, the cooked chicken and its juices, chicken broth, and remaining 1/2 tsp of salt. Stir to combine and bring to a boil. Once boiling, reduce the heat to low, cover with a tight-fitting lid, and cook until the rice is tender and fully cooked, ~22-25 min. Halfway through the cooking time, stir to prevent the rice from sticking to the pan then re-cover. If your rice sticks to the bottom of the pan, add a little more broth during the cooking process and stir. Once the rice is fully cooked, add in the ricotta and stir to fully distribute. Next, add the herbs and gently toss to combine, then finally add the feta and gently toss again. Serve with toasted pine nuts, extra feta, and a lemon wedge.



For serving:
1/4 c toasted pine nuts
lemon wedges

