Pastitsio
  --Taylor Ann Spencer

Sauce:
2 tbsp evoo
1 yellow onion, chopped
3 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2 tsp kosher salt, divided
1 1/2 lb ground beef
1/4 c tomato paste
1/2 c red wine
28-oz can crushed tomatoes
1 1/2 c low-sodium beef stock
1 bay leaf
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon 
1/4 tsp ground cloves

In a large skillet over medium heat, heat oil. Add onion, garlic, and 1/2 tsp salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 5-7 min Add beef and cook, stirring to break up large clumps, until browned and just cooked through, 4-5 min Drain any excess fat. Stir in tomato paste and cook, stirring occasionally, until paste is incorporated and beginning to stick to pan, 1-2 min. Add wine and cook, scraping up any browned bits, until pot is almost dry, 1-2 min. Stir in tomatoes, stock, bay leaf, cinnamon, cloves, and remaining 1 1/2 tsp salt. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer, stirring occasionally, until reduced to a thick sauce, ~45 min. Remove from heat. Discard bay leaf and let sauce cool to room temp. Sauce can be made 3 days ahead. Let cool completely, then store in an airtight container and refrigerate.

Assembly:
Cooking spray
12 oz bucatini
2 tbsp + 1 tsp kosher salt, divided
4 oz feta, crumbled
2 large eggs, separated
1/2 c (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/2 c ap flour 
3 c whole milk
1/2 tsp ground nutmeg
8 oz Kefalotyri or Pecorino Romano cheese, finely shredded, divided

Preheat oven to 350F. Grease a 13x9" casserole dish with cooking spray. Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat. Add bucatini and 2 tbsp salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente, 7-8 min (pasta should still be slightly undercooked in the center). Drain pasta and transfer to a large bowl. Add feta and 2 egg whites and toss to combine. Arrange pasta mixture in bottom of prepared dish, encouraging strands to lay as straight as possible, and top with meat sauce; set aside. In a medium pot over medium heat, melt butter. Stir in flour and cook, stirring constantly, until mixture foams, 2-3 min. Whisk in milk. Increase heat to medium-high and cook, stirring and constantly scraping bottom of pot, until thick and velvety, 2-3 min more. Remove from heat and add nutmeg, 6 oz Kefalotyri cheese, and remaining 1 tsp salt. Stir until cheese is melted, then whisk in 2 egg yolks. Spoon béchamel sauce over top of meat sauce; sprinkle with remaining 2 oz Kefalotyri cheese. Bake until bubbling around the edges and browned on top, 45-55 min. Let cool 15 min before serving.

