Quinoa and Broccoli Casserole
  --Alton Brown

1 1/2 cu quinoa
3 c chicken stock 
3 tsp kosher salt, divided 
12 oz broccoli florets, chopped 
8 oz button or cremini mushrooms, sliced 
4 tbsp unsalted butter, divided 
1/2 large onion, diced 
2 tbsp dry mustard 
1 1/2 tsp smoked paprika 
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper 
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper 
1/4 tsp ground white pepper 
3 c half-and-half 
1 large egg 
16 oz sharp Cheddar, grated 
1/2 c mayonnaise 

Place the quinoa in fine sieve or strainer and rinse thoroughly under cool running water and allow to drain. Position a rack in the middle of the oven and heat to 350F. Bring the quinoa, chicken stock and 2 tsp of the salt to a boil in a medium saucepan over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, stir, cover and cook for 15 min. When 5 min remain, add the broccoli right on top of the quinoa and replace the lid. Heat a large, straight-sided saute pan over high heat and add the mushrooms and 1/3 c of water. Cook until the mushrooms collapse, 2-3 min, then add 2 tbsp of the butter and cook until browned. Remove to a large bowl. Add the remaining 2 tbsp of butter to the pan along with the onions and the remaining teaspoon of salt. Reduce the heat to low and sweat the onions until translucent, about 5 min. Then stir in the mustard, smoked paprika, black pepper, cayenne and white pepper and cook for 1 min more. Add the half-and-half to the pan and heat until warm. Whisk the egg in a medium bowl and temper with 1 c of the hot liquid, continuing to whisk to prevent curdling. Then whisk the egg mixture back into the saute pan and add the cheese, stirring until melted. Add the quinoa, broccoli, mayonnaise and the melted cheese mixture to the bowl with the mushrooms and stir to combine. Pour the quinoa mixture into an ungreased 9x13" glass baking dish (see Notes). Bake until set and just beginning to brown, about 45 minutes or until the internal temperature reaches 205-210F. Cool 10 min before serving.



Notes: If your sauté pan is oven-proof, feel free to return the casserole to the pan for baking.
