Sausage and Ricotta Lasagna

Dough:
3 3/4 c (20oz) 00 flour + more for dusting
6 eggs + 6 egg yolks
1 tsp kosher salt

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook attachment, combine all the dough ingredients and mix until a dough comes together, then transfer to a clean work surface and knead until a smooth dough forms, 3-5 min. Divide into 2 pieces and shape each into a disk. Wrap in plastic and let rest in the refrigerator overnight.

Ragu:
2 tbsp olive oil
1 lb (4 links) hot italian sausage, casings removed
4 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 yellow onion, finely chopped
2 tbsp red wine
2x28 oz cans whole peeled tomatoes, crushed by hand
1 tsp dried oregano
1 thyme sprig
kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium high heat. Add the sausage and cook, using a wooden spoon to break up the sausage, until lightly caramelized, 4-5 min. Add the garlic and onions, and cook until the onions are translucent, 5-6 min. Pour in the wine and stir, scraping up any browned bits from the bottom of the pan. Add the tomatoes, oregano, and thyme, and bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat to medium and cook, stirring occasionally until the tomatoes have broken down and the liquid has thickened, 30 min. Season with salt and pepper. Let cool, then transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate overnight.

Pesto:
4 c (2 lbs) whole milk ricotta
1 c basil pesto
1/2 c grated parmesan
2 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp kosher salt
1 tsp lemon zest
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
2 eggs

In a large bowl, whisk together all the ricotta ingredients until smooth. Transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate overnight.

Assembly:
olive oil for greasing
2 lbs mozzarella, cut into 1/4" slices

Preheat the oven to 350F and grease a 9x13" baking dish. Cut each disk of dough in half. With plenty of flour on hand for dusting, use a rolling pin and a pasta roller to roll the pasta dough out into 1/6" thick sheets. Cut each sheet into 10" pieces, then set aside on a floured baking sheet layered with parchment paper. In the baking dish, spread a quarter of the ragu on the bottom. Place 3-4 sheets of pasta dough across the bottom, overlapping slightly to cover. Spread a third of the pest over the sheets and layer with a quarter of the sliced mozzarella, then arrange more pasta sheets to cover. Repeat the process of layering, alternating the ragu and the ricotta, 4 more times, for a total of 6 layers of pasta. Top the final layer of pasta with the remaining quarter of the ragu and the mozzarella slices. Cover the lasgana with greased foil and place on a baking sheet. Bake covered for 45 min, then remove the foil and continue to bake until the cheese is golden brown and bubbling, 30 min. Let cool for 20 min before slicing and serving.
