Zucchini Rolls with Sausage and Ricotta
  --Quyen Weng

4 medium zucchini (~ 3 lb), trimmed and peeled into thin slices
1 tbsp olive oil
1/2 lb ground Italian sausage
3/4 c part skim ricotta cheese
1/4 c mascarpone cheese
1/4 c freshly grated Parmesan
1 large egg
10 fresh basil leaves, chopped
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 1/2 c marinara sauce (homemade or store bought), divided
1 c shredded mozzarella cheese
salt
freshly ground black pepper

Preheat oven to 375F. Peel one side of the zucchini so it can lay flat on the cutting board. Use one hand to hold the zucchini in place and use the peeler with your other hand for long even slices. Line 2 baking sheets with clean dish towels (a great eco-friendly option in place of paper towels!). Lay zucchini slices in a single layer with minimal overlap onto the prepared baking sheets. Very lightly sprinkle salt over each baking sheet of zucchini. Let it sit for 10 min, and blot it dry with another clean dish towel. Flip the zucchini slices over and repeat on the other side. Warm a medium skillet over medium heat for a couple min, then add the olive oil. Add Italian sausage, and break it up while it cooks. Cook until browned, then drain and discard excess fat. In a medium bowl, add the ricotta, mascarpone, Parmesan, egg, basil, and garlic. Stir well to combine, and season with salt and pepper. Spread 1 c marinara sauce in the baking dish. Take 3 slices of zucchini and overlap them about halfway over each slice. Spread a thin layer of filling, sprinkle with a little of the sausage, and add another 2 slices of zucchini with no overlap. Spread another thin layer of filling (it’s okay if there are some gaps here!) and sprinkle with shredded mozzarella. Roll it up and place upright in the baking dish so that the zucchini swirls are visible. Repeat with remaining zucchini and filling. Top the rolls with remaining 1/2 c marinara sauce, and sprinkle with remaining mozzarella. Place into oven and bake for 25-30 min until the sauce is bubbly and the cheese has melted. Broil for a couple min to brown the surface.
